---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4112.5-E PDF(1)"
title: "Criminal Record Check"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "11/15/2017"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=zslshGDhfnEuyVWslshrtnFVvQpg%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

SAMPLE EMPLOYEE STATEMENT FORMUSE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION
As an employee of Santa Rosa City Schools District, you may have access to confidential criminal
record information which is controlled by state and federal statutes. Misuse of such information may
adversely affect the individual's civil rights and violate constitutional rights of privacy. Penal Code
502
prescribes the penalties relating to computer crimes. Penal Code
11105
and
13300
identify who has
access to criminal history information and under what circumstances it may be disseminated. Penal
Code
11140
-
11144
and 1330113305 prescribe penalties for misuse of criminal history information.
Government Code
6200
prescribes felony penalties for misuse of public records. Penal Code
11142
and
13300
state:
"Any person authorized by law to receive a record or information obtained from a record who
knowingly furnishes the record or information to a person not authorized by law to receive the record
or information is guilty of a misdemeanor."
Civil Code
1798.53
, invasion of Privacy, states:
"Any person who intentionally discloses information, not otherwise public, which they know or should
reasonably know was obtained from personal or confidential information maintained by a state agency
or from records within a system of records maintained by a federal government agency, shall be
subject to a civil action, for invasion of privacy, by the individual."
CIVIL, CRIMINAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES:
*Penni Code I I 14 1: Dal furnishing to unauthorized person (misdemeanor)
*Penal Code
11142
: Authorized person furnishing to other (misdemeanor)
*Penal Code
11143
: Unauthorized person in possession (misdemeanor)
*California Constitution, Article I, Section 1 (Right to Privacy)
* Civil Code
1798.53
. Invasion of Privacy
*Title 18 USC 641, 1030. 1951. and 1952
Any employee who is responsible for such misuse may be subject to immediate dismissal. Violations
of this law may result in criminal and/or civil action.
I HAVE READ THE ABOVE AND UNDERSTAND THE POLICY REGARDING MISUSE OF
CRIMINAL RECORD INFORMATION.
Signature
Date
Printed Name
Title
Name of District
PLEASE NOTE: Do not return this form to the DOJ. Your Custodian of Records should maintain

these forms.
