---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4112.1"
title: "Contracts"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "09/25/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "09/25/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=SOkeIJhjxsplusPwTGQ85Ho7A%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

When initially employed, certificated employees shall receive a written statement of their employment status and salary. Salary placement shall be based upon the Salary Placement Guidelines for certificated personnel and pursuant to the negotiated initial salary schedule placement for classified personnel. In the case of temporary employees, this statement shall clearly indicate the temporary nature of the employment and the length of time for which the person is being employed. (Education Code 44916)

**Length of Contract (Districts with less than 250 ADA)**

Any certificated employee may be offered a continuing contract covering a period longer than one year but not exceeding four years. (Education Code 44929.20)

**Reemployment Notices**

By May 30 of each year, the clerk or secretary of the Board may give, or mail by certified mail with return receipt requested, written notices to probationary and permanent certificated employees requesting that they notify the district of their intent to remain in district service for the next school year. This notice shall include a copy of Education Code 44842. If an employee, without good cause, fails to notify the district before July 1 that he/she will remain in district service, the employee may be deemed to have declined reemployment and the employee's services may be terminated on June 30 of that year. (Education Code 44842)

By April 30 of each year, the clerk or secretary of the Board may give, or mail by certified mail with return receipt requested, written notices to certificated employees of a year-round school who are serving in a track that starts within 14 days of July 1 requesting that they notify the district of their intent to remain in district service for the next school year. This notice shall include a copy of Education Code 44842. If an employee, without good cause, fails to notify the district before June 1 that he/she will remain in district service, the employee may be deemed to have declined reemployment and the employee's services may be terminated on June 30 of that year. An employee who gives notice of resignation after May 31 but before June 30 shall be released from his/her contract within 30 days of the employee's notice, or as soon as a replacement employee is obtained, whichever occurs first. (Education Code 44842)

**Employee Notification**

By May 15 of each year, each classroom teacher shall notify the Superintendent or designee of his/her intent to return to a teaching position for the next school year. (Education Code 44832)

An employee on leave of absence shall notify the district of his/her intent to remain in service the following year in accordance with law, Board policy and administrative regulation.
