---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4119.12-E PDF(1)"
title: "Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Procedures"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "12/14/2020"
date_last_reviewed: "12/14/2020"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=fKQ3eV5fjwrLvHau3DJnpg%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Santa Rosa City Schools
Exhibit
Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Procedures
E 4119.12
Personnel
NOTICE OF TITLE IX SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
The Code of Federal Regulations, Title 34, Section 106.8 requires the district to issue the
following notification to employees, job applicants, and employee organizations:
The district does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any education program or activity that it
operates. The prohibition against discrimination on the basis of sex is required by federal law
(20 USC 1681-1688; 34 CFR Part 106) and extends to employment. The district also prohibits
retaliation against any employee for filing a complaint or exercising any right granted under Title
IX.
Title IX requires a school district to take immediate and appropriate action to address any
potential Title IX violations that are brought to its attention. Any inquiries about the application
of Title IX, this notice, and who is protected by Title IX may be referred to the district's Title IX
Coordinator, to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Education, or
both.
The district has designated and authorized the following employee as the district's Title IX
Coordinator, to address concerns or inquiries regarding discrimination on the basis of sex,
including sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking:
________________________________________________________________
(name and/or title/position)
________________________________________________________________
(address)
________________________________________________________________
(telephone number)
________________________________________________________________
(email address)
Any individual may report sex discrimination, including sexual harassment, to the Title IX
Coordinator or any other school employee at any time, including during non-business hours, by
mail, phone, or email. During district business hours, reports may also be made in person. Upon

receiving an allegation of sexual harassment, the Title IX Coordinator will promptly notify the
parties, in writing, of the applicable district complaint procedure.
To view an electronic copy of the district's policies and administrative regulations on sexual
harassment, including the grievance process that complies with 34 CFR 106.45, please see
BP/AR 4119.11/4219.11/4319.11 - Sexual Harassment and AR 4119.12/4219.12/4319.12 - Title
IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Procedures on the district's web site at ____________(insert
website link)________________.
To inspect or obtain a copy of the district's sexual harassment policies and administrative
regulations, please contact:_________(insert location/phone/email of contact person) ______.
Materials used to train the Title IX Coordinator, investigator(s), decision-maker(s), and any
person who facilitates an informal resolution process are also publicly available on the district's
web site or at the district office upon request.
Policy
SANTA ROSA CITY SCHOOLS
adopted: December 14, 2020 Santa Rosa, California
