---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4119.21"
title: "Professional Standards"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "09/10/2025"
date_last_reviewed: "09/10/2025"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=5AHt8TorslshLWGe3NhKD05Lw%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**The purpose of this policy is to provide all staff, students, volunteers and community members with information to increase their awareness of their role in protecting students and themselves from inappropriate conduct and failure to maintain appropriate boundaries. All adults are expected to maintain professional, moral and ethical relationships with students that are conducive to an effective, safe learning environment. The provisions of this policy apply to all District staff, volunteers, coaches, and community members ("Employees") relative to their conduct with students in District schools and programs.**

**This policy addresses a range of behaviors that include not only obviously unlawful or improper interactions with students, but also behaviors that undermine the professional adult/student relationship and can lead to either misconduct or the appearance of impropriety.**

The Board expects district employees to maintain the highest ethical standards, behave professionally, follow district policies and regulations, abide by state and federal laws, and exercise good judgment when interacting with students and other members of the school community. **During work hours,** employees shall engage in conduct that enhances the integrity of the district, advances the goals of the district's educational programs, and contributes to a positive school climate.

The Board encourages district employees to accept as guiding principles the professional standards and codes of ethics adopted by educational or professional associations to which they may belong.

Each employee is expected to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to fulfill **their** responsibilities and to contribute to the learning and achievement of district students.

**EMPLOYEE PERSONAL USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA**

**The board respects the right of employees to use social media as a medium of self expression on their personal time. As role models for the school’s students, however, employees should be cognizant that social media activity can be readily searched and accessed by members of the public. Controversial, offensive or vulgar posts can lead to negative attention that is highly disruptive to school operations and can impair employees’ professional relationship with students, families, co-workers and the community. In extreme situations, such posts can create unsafe conditions for staff, students and others.**

**For these reasons, employees are urged to exercise appropriate judgement when posting or commenting on social media content. Employees also are urged to manage their personal social media and implement privacy settings to prevent students from accessing materials that are not age-appropriate.**

**SOCIAL MEDIA GUIDELINES**

**Employees shall observe the following when communicating through social media.**

1. **Employees shall not post confidential information about students, employees, or school business or information that can be used to identify, directly or indirectly, a student or employee.**
2. **Employees shall not“friend,” follow,” IM or otherwise communicate with students on personal social media sites.**
3. **Employees shall not discuss their private social media accounts with students or provide information on how to access it (e.g., profile or user names, hashtag handles, etc.).**
4. **Employees may not knowingly grant students access to view personal social media sites.**
5. **Employees shall not post identifiable images of a student or student’s family on a personal social media site without parental permission. Employees may post such images on a school-controlled social media site only with prior permission of the employee’s supervisor and in accordance with the requirements of federal and state privacy laws and policy 5125, Student Records.**
6. **Employees shall not use social media postings to harass, bully, threaten or intimidate students or other employees in violation of policies 5145.3/4030, Discrimination and Harassment Prohibited by Federal Law, 5145.7/5145.71/4319.11/4119.12, Title IX Sexual Harassment – Prohibited Conduct and Reporting Process, 5131.2/5145.7, Bullying and Harassing Behavior Prohibited, and 5145.3/4030, Discrimination and Harassment in the Workplace, or state and federal laws.**
7. **School employees are prohibited from accessing social networking websites for personal use during work or instructional time, except if during breaks and “duty free” time.**

**Inappropriate Conduct**

Inappropriate employee conduct includes, but is not limited to:

1. Engaging in any conduct that endangers students, staff, or others, including, but not limited to, physical violence, threats of violence, or possession of a firearm or other weapon
2. Engaging in harassing or discriminatory behavior towards students, parents/guardians, staff, or community members, or failing or refusing to intervene when an act of discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or bullying against a student is observed
3. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, neglecting, or otherwise willfully harming or injuring a child
4. Engaging in inappropriate socialization or fraternization with a student or soliciting, encouraging, or maintaining an inappropriate written, verbal, or physical relationship with a student
5. Possessing or viewing any pornography on school grounds, or possessing or viewing child pornography or other imagery portraying children in a sexualized manner at any time
6. Using profane, obscene, or abusive language against students, parents/guardians, staff, or community members
7. Willfully disrupting district or school operations by loud or unreasonable noise or other action
8. Using tobacco, alcohol, or an illegal or unauthorized substance, or possessing or distributing any controlled substance, while in the workplace, on district property, or at a school-sponsored activity
9. Being dishonest with students, parents/guardians, staff, or members of the public, including, but not limited to, falsifying information in employment records or other school records
10. Divulging confidential information about students, district employees, or district operations to persons or entities not authorized to receive the information
11. Using district equipment or other district resources for the employee's own commercial purposes or for political activities
12. Using district equipment or communications devices for personal purposes while on duty, except in an emergency, during scheduled work breaks, or for personal necessity. Employees shall be notified that computer files and all electronic communications, including, but not limited to, email and voice mail, are not private. To ensure proper use, the Superintendent or designee may monitor employee usage of district technological resources at any time without the employee's consent.
13. Causing damage to or engaging in theft of property belonging to students, staff, or the district
14. Wearing inappropriate attire

**Reports of Misconduct**

An employee who observes or has evidence of another employee's inappropriate conduct shall immediately report such conduct to the principal or Superintendent or designee. An employee who has knowledge of or suspects child abuse or neglect shall file a report pursuant to the district's child abuse reporting procedures as detailed in AR 5141.4 - Child Abuse Prevention and Reporting.

Any reports of employee misconduct shall be promptly investigated. Any employee who is found to have engaged in inappropriate conduct in violation of law or Board policy shall be subject to disciplinary action and, in the case of a certificated employee, may be subject to a report to the Commission on Teacher Credentialing. The Superintendent or designee shall notify local law enforcement as appropriate.

An employee who has knowledge of but fails to report inappropriate employee conduct may also be subject to discipline.

The district prohibits retaliation against anyone who files a complaint against an employee or reports an employee's inappropriate conduct. Any employee who retaliates against any such complainant, reporter, or other participant in the district's complaint process shall be subject to discipline.

**Notifications** The section(s) of the district's employee code of conduct addressing interactions with students shall be provided to parents/guardians at the beginning of each school year and shall be posted on school and/or district websites. (Education Code 44050)
