---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4119.24"
title: "Maintaining Appropriate Adult-Student Interactions"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "10/08/2025"
date_last_reviewed: "10/08/2025"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=LKslshdWUAG5DQut46z0DzfMA%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**The purpose of this policy is to provide all staff, students, volunteers and community members with information to increase their awareness of their role in protecting students and themselves from inappropriate conduct and failure to maintain appropriate boundaries. All adults are expected to maintain professional, moral and ethical relationships with students that are conducive to an effective, safe learning environment. The provisions of this policy apply to all District staff, volunteers, coaches, and community members ("Employees") relative to their conduct with students in District schools and programs.**

**This policy addresses a range of behaviors that include not only obviously unlawful or improper interactions with students, but also behaviors that undermine the professional adult/student relationship and can lead to either misconduct or the appearance of impropriety.**

The Board expects all adults with whom students may interact at school or in school-related activities, including employees, independent contractors, and volunteers, to maintain the highest professional and ethical standards in their interactions with students both within and outside the educational setting. Such adults shall not engage in unlawful or inappropriate interactions with students and shall avoid boundary-blurring behaviors that undermine trust in the adult-student relationship and lead to the appearance of impropriety.

Employees are prohibited from entering into or attempting to form a romantic or sexual relationship with any student or engaging in sexual harassment of a student, including sexual advances, flirtations, requests for sexual favors, inappropriate comments about a student's body or appearance, or other verbal, visual, or physical conduct of a sexual nature.

Adults shall not intrude on a student's physical or emotional boundaries unless necessary in an emergency or to serve a legitimate purpose related to instruction, counseling, student health, or student or staff safety.

Any employee who observes or has knowledge of another employee's violation of this policy shall report the information to the Superintendent or designee or appropriate agency for investigation pursuant to the applicable complaint procedures. Other adults with knowledge of any violation of this policy are encouraged to report the violation to the Superintendent or designee. The Superintendent or designee shall protect anyone who reports a violation from retaliation. Immediate intervention shall be implemented when necessary to protect student safety or the integrity of the investigation.

Employees who engage in any conduct in violation of this policy, including retaliation against a person who reports the violation or participates in the complaint process, shall be subject to discipline, up to and including dismissal. Any other adult who violates this policy may be barred from school grounds and activities in accordance with law. The Superintendent or designee may also notify law enforcement as appropriate.

The district's employee code of conduct addressing interactions with students shall be provided to parents/guardians at the beginning of each school year and shall be posted on school and/or district web sites. (Education Code 44050).

**Inappropriate Conduct**

Employees shall remain vigilant of their position of authority and not abuse it when relating with students. Examples of employee conduct that can undermine professional adult-student interactions or create the appearance of impropriety include, but are not limited to:

1. Initiating inappropriate physical contact
2. Being alone with a student outside of the view of others
3. Visiting a student's home or inviting a student to visit the employee's home without parent/guardian consent
4. Maintaining personal contact with a student that has no legitimate educational purpose, by phone, letter, electronic communications, or other means, without including the student's parent/guardian or the principal. When communicating electronically with students, employees shall use district equipment or technological resources when available. Employees shall not communicate with students through any medium that is designed to eliminate records of the communications. The Superintendent or designee may monitor employee usage of district technology at any time without advance notice or consent.

**All electronic communications from coaches and advisors to team or club members shall concern only legitimate educational interests and shall be sent in a single communication to all participating team or club members, except for communications concerning an individual student's medical or academic privacy matters, in which case the communication will be copied to a school administrator, athletic director or parent/guardian.**

5. Creating or participating in **social media accounts and platforms** for communication with students, other than those created by the district, without the prior written approval of the principal or designee
6. Inviting or accepting requests from students, or former students who are minors, to connect on**personal social media accounts and platforms** (e.g., "friending" or "following" on social media), unless the site is dedicated to school business
7. **Singling out a particular student or students for personal attention and friendship beyond the professional staff-student relationship.**
8. **Addressing students with personalized terms of endearment, pet names or otherwise in an overly familiar manner.**
9. Socializing or spending time with students (including but not limited to activities such as going out for beverages, meals or movies, shopping, traveling and recreational activities and visiting the student's home) outside of school-sponsored events, except as participants in community activities.
10. Sending or accompanying students on personal errands unrelated to any legitimate educational purpose
11. Transporting a student in a personal vehicle without prior authorization
12. **For non- guidance/counseling staff, encouraging students to confide their personal or family problems and/or relationships. If a student initiates such discussions, employees are expected to use their professional judgment in referring the student to appropriate guidance and staff. In either case, employee involvement should be limited to a direct connection to the student’s school performance.**
13. **Employees shall avoid sharing intimate or inappropriate details of their personal lives. However, sharing appropriate personal experiences related to learning, growth or resilience is encouraged when it serves an educational or relational purpose.**
