---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4131.1"
title: "Teacher Support And Guidance"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=f9NmejxCZqfTtS6YZeJHJA%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Selection of Support Providers**

The Superintendent or designee shall design a written application for certificated personnel who want to be mentor teachers or support providers.

Any employee designated by the Superintendent or designee as a support provider shall, at a minimum, meet the following qualifications:

1. Possess a clear credential
2. Have at least three years of full-time teaching experience
3. Have demonstrated effective communication skills, subject matter knowledge, and mastery of a range of teaching strategies necessary to meet the needs of students

The Superintendent or designee may establish a districtwide or school site advisory committee to verify that candidates fulfill the qualifications established by the district, interview candidates, and recommend candidates to the Superintendent or designee.

The Superintendent or designee shall make the final selection of support providers and shall assign support providers to participating teachers. To the extent possible, the assigned support provider shall be one who teaches at the same school, the same grade levels, and/or in the same subject matter as the teacher(s) to whom he/she is assigned. No support provider shall be assigned to more than five teachers during a school year.

The Superintendent or designee shall regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the support provider and may reassign or revoke his/her designation as a support provider.

**Peer Review Panel**

The Superintendent or designee shall establish a peer review program to provide struggling teachers with feedback and guidance. When a teacher volunteers to participate or is referred by the principal due to unsatisfactory performance, written performance goals shall be established which are aligned with student learning and teacher evaluation criteria. The teacher shall be assigned a consulting teacher who shall provide assistance and review through multiple observations of the teacher during periods of classroom instruction. In addition, the teacher shall participate in sufficient professional development activities to assist him/her to improve teaching skills and knowledge. The consulting teacher shall maintain a written record of the teacher's activities and performance and shall regularly communicate with the principal regarding the teacher's progress.

The Superintendent or designee shall establish a joint teacher-administrator peer review panel composed of a majority of teachers selected by other teachers, with the remainder consisting of administrators selected by the Superintendent or designee. The joint teacher-administrator peer review panel shall review reports prepared by the consulting teacher and shall make recommendations to the Superintendent or designee as to whether the participating teacher should be exited from the program due to satisfactory improvement, remain in the program because he/she would possibly benefit from additional support from the program, or be recommended for dismissal.
