---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4219.21-E PDF(1)"
title: "Professional Standards - Code Of Ethics Classified Employees"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=8sm7U2Sxa0jQGAn8Aplus6z3Q%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

School employees who are in daily contact with many phases of educational work should be personswhose conduct is beyond reproach and who sincerely believe in the advancement of education and thebetterment of working conditions; therefore, the California School Employees' Association proposesthis Code of Ethics as a standard for its members.
AS A SCHOOL EMPLOYEE I WILL:
1. Be proud of my vocation in order that I may use my best endeavors to elevate the standards of my
position so that I may merit a reputation for high quality of service -- to the end that others may
emulate my example.
2. Be a person of integrity, clean speech, desirable personal habits, and physical fitness.
3. Be just in my criticism and be generous in my praise; to improve and not destroy.
4. At all times be courteous in my relations with students, parents, teachers and others.
5. Be a resourceful person who readily adapts himself to different kinds of work and changed
conditions and finds better ways to do things.
6. Conduct myself in a spirit of friendly helpfulness to my fellow employees to the end that I will
consider no personal success legitimate or ethical which is secured by taking unfair advantage of
another.
7. Associate myself with employees of other districts for the purpose of discussing school problems
and cooperating in the improvement of public school conditions.
8. Always uphold my obligations as a citizen to my nation, my state, my school district and my
community, and give them unswerving loyalty.
9. Always bear in mind that the purpose of CSEA is to promote the efficiency and raise the standards
of all school employees and that I shall be equally obligated to assist all my fellow workers.
SOURCE:
CALIFORNIA SCHOOL EMPLOYEES' ASSOCIATION
