---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4261.11"
title: "Industrial Accident/Illness Leave"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "02/27/2008"
date_last_reviewed: "02/27/2008"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=j8c7XmFL5RfcfV3L6MI92A%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In each fiscal year, allowable leave for any single industrial accident or illness shall be for up to 60 working days. (Education Code 45192)

Allowable leave shall not accumulate from year to year. (Education Code 45192)

When a classified employee is absent from his/her duties because of an industrial accident or illness: (Education Code 45192)

1. Industrial accident or illness leave shall start on the first day of absence.
2. Payment for wages lost on any day shall not, when added to an award granted the employee under the workers' compensation laws of this state, exceed the normal wage for the day.
3. Industrial accident or illness leave shall be reduced by one day for each day of authorized absence, regardless of a compensation award made under workers' compensation.
4. If an industrial accident or illness leave overlaps into the next fiscal year, the employee is entitled to only that amount remaining at the end of the fiscal year in which the injury or illness occurred, for the same illness or injury.

Upon expiration of allowable leave for an industrial accident or illness, the employee shall use sick leave as provided by Education Code 45191. If the employee continues to receive workers' compensation, he/she shall be entitled to use only as much of his/her available sick leave, accumulated compensating time, or vacation as when added to the employee's workers' compensation benefit, will provide for a full day's wage or salary. (Education Code 45192)

When available paid leave has been exhausted, the employee shall be so notified in writing and shall be offered an opportunity to request additional unpaid leave. (Education Code 45192)

When all available leaves of absence, paid or unpaid, have been exhausted and the employee is not medically able to assume the duties of his/her position, the employee shall be placed either in another position for which he/she is qualified or on a reemployment list for a period of 39 months. If during this time the employee becomes medically able, he/she shall be employed in a vacant position in the class of his/her previous assignment over all other available candidates, except for a reemployment list established because of lack of work or lack of funds, in which case the employee shall be listed in accordance with appropriate seniority regulations. An employee who has been placed on a reemployment list and has been medically released for return to duty, but fails to accept an appropriate assignment, shall be dismissed. (Education Code 45192)

Any employee receiving benefits under this leave shall, during periods of injury or illness, remain within the State of California unless the Board of Education authorizes travel outside the state. (Education Code 45192)

During this leave, the employee may return to his/her position without suffering any loss of status or benefits. Periods of leave of absence, paid or unpaid, shall not be considered to be a break in service of the employee. (Education Code 45192)
