---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4312.62-E(1)"
title: "Maintenance Of Criminal Offender Records"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "02/27/2008"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=uIXRRaCAXGSjNgzZ29TczA%3D%3D&ptid=amIgTZiB9plushNjl6WXhfiOQ%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

SAMPLE EMPLOYEE STATEMENT FORMUSE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION
As an employee of Santa Rosa City Schools, you may have access to confidential criminal record
information which is controlled by statute.
Misuse of such information may adversely affect the
individual's civil rights and violates the law.
Penal Code
502
prescribes the penalties related to
computer crimes.
Penal Code
11105
and
13300
identify who has access to criminal history information
and under what circumstances it may be released.
Penal Code
11140
-
11144
and
13301
-
13305
prescribe penalties for misuse of criminal history information.
Government Code
6200
prescribes the
felony penalties for misuse of public record and CLETS (California Law Enforcement
Telecommunication System) information.
Penal Code
11142
and
13303
state:
Any person authorized by law to receive a record or information obtained from a record who
knowingly furnishes the record or information to a person not authorized by law to receive the record
or information is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any employee who is responsible for such misuse may be subject to immediate dismissal.
Violations
of this law may also result in criminal and/or civil action.
I HAVE READ THE ABOVE AND UNDERSTAND THE POLICY REGARDING MISUSE OF
CRIMINAL RECORD INFORMATION.
Signature:_______________________
Date:___________________________
