---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4312.1"
title: "Contracts"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=qPU8OqUYXsAhbmWlSYCLsg%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes the importance of qualified and competent individuals to lead district programs and to assist the Superintendent in coordinating efforts to achieve district goals and objectives. To that end, the Board may fill certificated administrative and supervisory positions and classified senior management positions on a contract basis.

The Board may offer a continuing contract of up to four years to any deputy, associate, or assistant superintendent; any certificated employee holding a position requiring a supervision or administration credential; or any senior manager of the classified service. (Education Code 35031, 44929.20)

Prior to entering into any such contract, the Board and Superintendent shall consider the financial impact of the contract on the district. The proposed contract shall also be reviewed by legal counsel to ensure that all legally required provisions are included in the contract and to address any potentially adverse obligations to the district.

The Board shall deliberate in the closed session of a regular meeting about the terms of an employment contract for a deputy, associate, or assistant superintendent; other certificated employee holding a position requiring a supervision or administration credential; or a senior manager of the classified service. (Government Code 54957)

Any such employment contract shall be ratified by the Board during an open session of a regularly scheduled Board meeting and reflected in the Board's minutes. Copies of the contracts shall be available to the public upon request. (Government Code 53262)

**Termination of Contract**

Every employee contract shall include a provision specifying the legal maximum cash settlement that the employee may receive in the event that the Board finds it necessary to terminate the contract prior to its expiration date. (Government Code 53260)

In addition, all employee contracts shall include a provision that, if the employee is convicted of a crime involving an abuse of his/her office or position, he/she shall fully reimburse the district for payments he/she receives as paid leave salary pending investigation or as cash settlement upon his/her termination and for any funds expended by the district in his/her criminal legal defense. (Government Code 53243-53243.4, 53260)
