---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4319.21-E PDF(1)"
title: "Professional Standards"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=bzxE4KNXe3OhLekjxrPIWA%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

CALIFORNIA PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS FOR EDUCATIONAL LEADERSStandard 1. Development and Implementation of a Shared Vision: Education leaders facilitate thedevelopment and implementation of a shared vision of learning and growth of all students.
1A. Student-Centered Vision: Leaders shape a collective vision that uses multiple measures of data and
focuses on equitable access, opportunities, and outcomes for all students.
1B. Developing Shared Vision: Leaders engage others in a collaborative process to develop a vision of
teaching and learning that is shared and supported by all stakeholders.
1C. Vision Planning and Implementation: Leaders guide and monitor decisions, actions, and outcomes
using the shared vision and goals.
Standard 2. Instructional Leadership: Education leaders shape a collaborative culture of teaching and
learning informed by professional standards and focused on student and professional growth.
2A. Professional Learning Culture: Leaders promote a culture in which staff engages in individual and
collective professional learning that results in their continuous improvement and high performance.
2B. Curriculum and Instruction: Leaders guide and support the implementation of standards-based
curriculum, instruction, and assessments that address student expectations and outcomes.
2C. Assessment and Accountability: Leaders develop and use assessment and accountability systems to
monitor, improve, and extend educator practice, program outcomes, and student learning.
Standard 3. Management and Learning Environment: Education leaders manage the organization to
cultivate a safe and productive learning and working environment.
3A. Operations and Facilities: Leaders provide and oversee a functional, safe, and clean learning
environment.
3B. Plans and Procedures: Leaders establish structures and employ policies and processes that support
students to graduate ready for college and career.
3C. Climate: Leaders facilitate safe, fair, and respectful environments that meet the intellectual,
linguistic, cultural, social-emotional, and physical needs of each learner.
3D. Fiscal and Human Resources: Leaders align fiscal and human resources and manage policies and
contractual agreements that build a productive learning environment.
Standard 4. Family and Community Engagement: Education leaders collaborate with families and
other stakeholders to address diverse student and community interests and mobilize community
resources.
4A. Parent and Family Engagement: Leaders meaningfully involve all parents/guardians and families,
including underrepresented communities, in student learning and support programs.
4B. Community Partnerships: Leaders establish community partnerships that promote and support
students to meet performance and content expectations and graduate ready for college and career.

4C. Community Resources and Services: Leaders leverage and integrate community resources and
services to meet the varied needs of all students.
Standard 5. Ethics and Integrity: Education leaders make decisions, model, and behave in ways that
demonstrate professionalism, ethics, integrity, justice, and equity and hold staff to the same standard.
5A. Reflective Practice: Leaders act upon a personal code of ethics that requires continuous reflection
and learning.
5B. Ethical Decision-Making: Leaders guide and support personal and collective actions that use
relevant evidence and available research to make fair and ethical decisions.
5C. Ethical Action: Leaders recognize and use their professional influence with staff and the
community to develop a climate of trust, mutual respect, and honest communication necessary to
consistently make fair and equitable decisions on behalf of all students.
Standard 6. External Context and Policy: Education leaders influence political, social, economic, legal,
and cultural contexts affecting education to improve education policies and practices.
6A. Understanding and Communicating Policy: Leaders actively structure and participate in
opportunities that develop greater public understanding of the education policy environment.
6B. Professional Influence: Leaders use their understanding of social, cultural, economic, legal, and
political contexts to shape policies that lead all students to graduate ready for college and career.
6C. Policy Engagement: Leaders engage with policymakers and stakeholders to collaborate on
education policies focused on improving education for all students.
