---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "4357.1"
title: "Work-Related Injuries"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "11/15/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "11/15/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=95DP7g25d2A6NPSawqv7Bw%3D%3D&ptid=muNUlKiR2jsXcslsh28JpBkiw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In order to provide medical benefits, temporary or permanent disability benefits, wage replacement, retraining or skill enhancement, and/or death benefits in the event that an employee becomes injured or ill in the course of employment, the district shall provide all employees with insurance and workers' compensation benefits in accordance with law. The Superintendent or designee shall develop an efficient claims handling process that reduces costs and facilitates employee recovery.

The Superintendent or designee shall notify every new employee, at the time of hire or by the end of the first pay period, of his/her right to receive workers' compensation benefits if injured at work. (Labor Code 3551; 8 CCR 15596)

In addition, a notice regarding workers' compensation benefits shall be posted in a conspicuous location frequented by employees, where the notice may be easily read during the workday. (Labor Code 3550)

In the event that an employee is injured or becomes ill in the course of employment, he/she shall report the work-related injury or illness to the Superintendent or designee as soon as practicable.

Within one working day of receiving notice or knowledge of any injury to an employee in the course of employment, the Superintendent or designee shall provide a claim form and notice of potential eligibility for workers' compensation benefits to the employee or, in the case of the employee's death, to his/her dependents. The claim form and notice shall be provided personally or by first class mail. (Labor Code 5401)

The Superintendent or designee shall additionally ensure that any employee who is a victim of a crime that occurred at the place of employment is given written notice personally or by first class mail within one working day of the crime, or when the district reasonably should have known of the crime, that the employee is eligible for workers' compensation benefits for injuries, including psychiatric injuries, that may have resulted from the crime. (Labor Code 3553)

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that all employee notices described above are in the form prescribed by the Department of Industrial Relations (DIR), Division of Workers Compensation.

Upon learning of a work-related injury or illness, or injury or illness alleged to have arisen out of and in the course of employment, the Superintendent or designee shall report the incident to the district's insurance carrier within five days after obtaining knowledge of the injury or illness. If a subsequent death arises as a result of the reported injury or illness, an amended report indicating the death must be filed with the insurance carrier within five days after being notified of or learning about the death. (Labor Code 6409.1)

In addition, in every case involving death or serious injury or illness, the Superintendent or designee shall immediately make a report by telephone or email to the Division of Occupational Safety and Health. (Labor Code 6409.1)
