---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6140.2"
title: "^Curriculum And Curriculum Project Development"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "03/12/2008"
date_last_reviewed: "03/12/2008"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=p9CKvVCn4lwHHMnPIc9ukQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

1. In a cooperative approach, administrators, teachers, lay citizens, board members, educational partners, children, and youth work together to define educational purposes and to improve educational methods and procedures for achieving these purposes.
2. The curriculum includes classroom instruction, student activities, community services and relationships, work experience, guidance and counseling, and instructional support services.
3. Curriculum change is continuous, an ongoing gradually evolving program.
4. Curriculum change is uneven: One area may move forward rapidly while others remain relatively unchanged, but it is not haphazard. It is orderly and takes place within the framework of the educational goals of the district, the policies of the Board of Education and legal requirements of the State of California.
5. Curriculum improvement begins with a need felt and expressed by anyone involved in the educational program. Such need can be defined as a discrepancy between what is and what ought to be.
6. Essential to curriculum improvement is exploration of the extent and acuteness of the need and the assessment of its priority in relation to other curriculum needs of the district.
7. The following shall constitute the five basic elements of curriculum development:
  1. Needs assessment
  2. Goals and objectives
  3. Content and strategies for presentation of content
  4. Curriculum evaluation
  5. In-service education
8. Procedures involve the following steps:
  1. Recognizing and clarifying the need
  2. Locating and stating the major problems to be solved
  3. Studying the problems, identifying constraints, and proposing solutions
  4. Selecting the most promising solution
  5. Exchanging information with all concerned
  6. Establishing a calendar and procedures for putting the change into practice
  7. Securing approvals and funds
  8. Producing or securing materials, supplies, and equipment
  9. Strengthening and expanding staff knowledge and skills through planned in-service education programs
  10. Evaluating the effectiveness of the change with respect to the individual progress of students and achievement of district goals
9. Special curriculum projects, developed collaboratively with educational partners, are presented to the Board of Education for approval per Administrative Regulation 6140.1.
