---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6141.4"
title: "International Baccalaureate Program"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=vOnuscrwf61cqRGYzFryAg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

To encourage district students to challenge themselves academically, develop intercultural understanding and respect, and be more competitive when applying for admission to postsecondary institutions, the district shall offer opportunities for students to participate in the International Baccalaureate (IB) program. The Superintendent or designee shall provide a challenging, cross-disciplinary curriculum that provides the knowledge, concepts, skills, attitudes, and action that district students need to equip them for successful lives. The district's IB program shall provide structured, purposeful inquiry that engages students in their own learning.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that district students of all ability levels are offered the opportunity to participate in the program if it is available at their school.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that teachers and administrators are engaged in the planning process for the IB program to construct a rigorous and challenging curriculum. He/she shall coordinate implementation of the IB program with any other advanced learning opportunities offered by the district.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide staff development and support to teachers of IB courses. Such professional development may include, but is not limited to, mentoring for prospective teachers of IB courses, opportunities for teachers to obtain information on the curriculum of specific courses through online workshops, webinars, blended learning and e-learning resources, and opportunities for district staff to share course syllabi and teaching practices.

**IB Diploma Program or IB Career-related Program**

The district's IB Diploma Program shall offer a comprehensive, rigorous two-year program for students. To earn the IB diploma, students shall:

1. Complete a specific, intensive, balanced liberal arts course of study
2. Pass examinations in six curricular areas, including language and literature, language acquisition, individuals and societies, sciences, mathematics, and the arts
3. Demonstrate an understanding of the theory of knowledge through an oral presentation and extended essay on an externally assessed, independent research project
4. Demonstrate creativity, action, and service through involvement in a minimum of 150 hours of artistic activities, physical activities, and community service
