---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6141.5"
title: "Advanced Placement"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=uNk6L8koOuF6anhqU2xoGA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

To encourage district students to challenge themselves academically, develop college-level skills, and be more competitive when applying for admission to postsecondary institutions, the Board of Education shall offer opportunities to high school students to take Advanced Placement (AP) courses and pass AP examinations.

The Board desires to provide at least four AP courses at each high school. The Superintendent or designee shall recommend subject areas for AP courses at each school based on student interest and the availability of qualified certificated staff, instructional materials, and other resources. The Superintendent or designee shall also explore alternative methods of delivering AP courses, such as online courses or distance learning.

The Superintendent or designee may consult and collaborate with feeder schools to ensure that students are offered the opportunity to take coursework that will prepare them for AP courses.

All students who meet course prerequisites shall have equal access to AP courses.

Grades for AP courses shall be assigned in accordance with Board policy and administrative regulation.

The Superintendent or designee shall make efforts to encourage students to participate in AP courses and to take end-of-course AP exams by creating support systems for AP students, such as resource centers and programs to recognize student accomplishments. In addition, the Superintendent or designee may explore partnerships with colleges and universities to help encourage students to pursue postsecondary education.

To increase the capacity of district schools to offer AP courses, the Superintendent or designee shall provide staff development and support to teachers of such courses. This professional development may include, but is not limited to, opportunities for teachers to obtain information on the curriculum of specific courses, instructional methods, and data-driven decision making; mentoring for prospective teachers of AP courses; and opportunities for staff within the district to share course syllabi and practices.

The Board desires that every district AP course receive authorization to use the AP designation by the College Board. To that end, the Superintendent or designee shall coordinate the process for submitting courses for approval as part of the College Board AP course audit.

**Examination Fee**

To the extent feasible, the district shall reduce the cost of AP examination fees for eligible low-income students. At the beginning of each school year, the Superintendent or designee shall notify parents/guardians of the availability of funds for this purpose and shall provide information on how income-eligible students may apply for funding.
