---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6142.71-E PDF(1)"
title: "^Independent Study Physical Education (ISPE)"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "01/26/2011"
date_last_reviewed: "01/26/2011"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=QsaLl5igWwQGmczI4Pt7zQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Independent Study, Physical Education E 6158.1
SANTA ROSA CITY SCHOOLS
INDEPENDENT STUDY PHYSICAL EDUCATION (ISPE)
PROGRAM APPLICATION
To be completed by Student and submitted to the school counselor: Please print legibly
I am applying for (circle one): FULL YEAR FALL ONLY SPRING ONLY
Application Deadlines
For Full Year and Fall Semester - May 5; For Spring Semester - December 1
Date
Present School Present Grade Level
Student's Name ID No.
Address City Zip Code
School in Fall
Counselor Name
Name/Description of Activity
Name of Coach/Trainer Telephone
Explain why you believe this sport/activity qualifies for ISPE (Be specific):
Number of years the applicant has been training in this activity ____ (Must have at least two
years experience)
I agree to meet all requirements of ISPE, including written assignments, and to meet each and
every deadline. I understand that I am to provide my own transportation and that this program
is not designed to take another class. The school will not accommodate a study hall. The
program will cause an unscheduled period during the day, either 1st or 6th period. I also
understand that the ISPE activity for which I am applying falls into the appropriate California
State Frameworks list of approved activities. I understand and agree that I could complete my PE
credits by enrolling in traditional SRCS classes and that I have chosen to waive my right to do
so. I further agree to release Santa Rosa City Schools from any liability, and hold the same
harmless, resulting from my participation in the ISPE Program.
Student's Signature Date
Parent's Signature Date
