---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6142.7"
title: "Physical Education And Activity"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "01/13/2021"
date_last_reviewed: "01/13/2021"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=m9rj8slshCLpxhVXPPplus0A8gAg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Governing Board recognizes the positive benefits of physical activity on student health, well-being, and academic achievement. The district shall provide all students the opportunity to be physically active on a regular basis through high-quality physical education instruction and may provide additional opportunities for physical activity throughout the school day. The district's physical education and activity programs shall support the district's coordinated student wellness program and encourage students' lifelong fitness.

Physical education classes shall be conducted in the coeducational, inclusive manner prescribed by law. The district shall provide instruction in physical education that provides equal access and equal opportunities for participation for all students in grades 1-12 regardless of gender, gender expression, sexual orientation, and mental or physical disability. (Education Code 220, 221.5, 33352; 5 CCR 4900, 4930, 4931, 4940, 4960; 34 CFR 106.33, 106.34, 300.108)

The district's physical education program shall provide a developmentally appropriate sequence of instruction aligned with the state's model content standards and curriculum framework.

The district's physical education program shall engage students in age-appropriate moderate to vigorous physical activity, as defined in the accompanying administrative regulation, including aerobic, muscle-strengthening, and bone-strengthening activities. The Superintendent or designee shall develop strategies to monitor the amount of moderate to vigorous physical activity that takes place in the physical education instructional program.

For grades 9-12, the overall course of study shall include the effects of physical activity upon dynamic health, the mechanics of body movement, aquatics, gymnastics and tumbling, individual and dual sports, rhythms and dance, team sports, and combative. (Education Code 33352; 5 CCR 10060)

The Board shall approve the courses in grades 9-12 for which physical education credit may be granted.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop strategies to supplement physical education instruction with additional opportunities for students to be physically active before, during, and after the school day.

Students with disabilities shall be provided instruction in physical education in accordance with their individualized education program or Section 504 accommodation plan.

During air pollution episodes, extreme weather, or other inclement conditions, physical education staff shall make appropriate adjustments to the program or shall seek alternative indoor space to enable students to participate in active physical education.

**Staffing**

Physical education instruction shall be delivered by appropriately credentialed teachers who may be assisted by instructional aides, paraprofessionals, and/or volunteers.

The district shall provide physical education teachers with continuing professional development, including classroom management and instructional strategies designed to keep students engaged and active and to enhance the quality of physical education instruction and assessment.

**Physical Fitness Testing**

The Superintendent or designee shall annually administer the physical fitness test designated by the State Board of Education (FITNESSGRAM) to students in grades 5, 7, and 9. (Education Code 60800; 5 CCR 1041)

**Temporary Exemptions**

The Superintendent or designee may grant a student a temporary exemption from physical education under either of the following conditions: (Education Code 51241)

1. The student is ill or injured and a modified program to meet the student's needs cannot be provided.
2. The student is enrolled for one-half time or less.

**Two-Year Exemptions**

With the student's consent, the Superintendent or designee may exempt a student from physical education courses for any two years during grades 10-12 provided that the student has satisfactorily met at least five of the six standards of the FITNESSGRAM in grade 9. (Education Code 51241)

Upon request by students and/or their parents/guardians, the Superintendent or designee may administer the FITNESSGRAM to students in grades 10-12 who need to pass the test in order to qualify for a two-year exemption from physical education courses.

Students in grades 10-12 who have been granted a two-year exemption shall be offered a variety of elective physical education courses of not less than 400 minutes each 10 school days. (Education Code 33352, 51222)

Such students shall not be permitted to attend fewer total hours of courses and classes than they would have attended if enrolled in a physical education course. (Education Code 51241)

**Permanent Exemptions**

The Superintendent or designee may grant a student a permanent exemption from physical education under any of the following conditions: (Education Code 51241)

1. The student is age 16 years or older and has been enrolled in grade 10 for one or more academic years. However, such a student shall not be permitted to attend fewer total hours of courses and classes than the student would have attended if enrolled in a physical education course.
2. The student is enrolled as a postgraduate student.
3. The student is enrolled in a juvenile home, ranch, camp, or forestry camp school with scheduled recreation and exercise.

Students who have been granted a permanent exemption shall be offered a variety of elective physical education courses of not less than 400 minutes each 10 school days. (Education Code 33352)

**Other Exemptions**

The Superintendent or designee may grant a student an exemption from physical education under the following special circumstances:

1. When the student is in any of grades 10-12 and is excused for up to 24 clock hours in order to participate in automobile driver training. However, any such student shall attend a minimum of 7,000 minutes of physical education instruction during the school year. (Education Code 51222)
2. When the student is in any of grades 10-12, attends a regional occupational center or program, and, because of the travel time involved, would experience hardship to attend physical education courses. Any such student shall have a minimum school day of 180 minutes. (Education Code 52316)
3. When the student is in high school and is engaged in a regular school-sponsored interscholastic athletic program carried on wholly or partially after regular school hours. (Education Code 51242)

**Program Evaluation**

The Superintendent or designee shall annually report to the Board each school's FITNESSGRAM results for each applicable grade level. The Superintendent or designee shall also report to the Board regarding the number of instructional minutes offered in physical education for each grade level, the number of two-year and permanent exemptions granted pursuant to Education Code 51241, and any other data agreed upon by the Board and the Superintendent or designee to evaluate program quality and the effectiveness of the district's program in meeting goals for physical activity and student well-being.
