---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6142.1"
title: "Sexual Health And HIV/AIDS Prevention Instruction"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=RslshoIz2wPGvMe6EZgOU9w8Q%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to provide a well-planned, integrated sequence of medically accurate and inclusive instruction on comprehensive sexual health and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention. The district's educational program shall provide students with the knowledge and skills necessary to protect them from sexually transmitted infections and unintended pregnancy and to have healthy, positive, and safe relationships and behaviors. The district's educational program shall also promote understanding of sexuality as a normal part of human development and the development of healthy attitudes and behaviors concerning adolescent growth and development, body image, gender, sexual orientation, relationships, marriage, and family.

Comprehensive sexual health education and HIV prevention education shall be offered to all students in grades 7-12, including at least once in junior high or middle school and at least once in high school. (Education Code 51934)

The district's curriculum shall support the purposes of the California Healthy Youth Act as specified in Education Code 51930-51939, be unbiased and inclusive of all students in the classroom, and be aligned with the state's content standards. The district shall respect the rights of parents/guardians to supervise their children's education on these subjects and to impart values regarding human sexuality to their children.

The Superintendent or designee may appoint a coordinator and/or an advisory committee regarding the district's comprehensive sexual health and HIV prevention curriculum. The advisory committee shall represent a divergence of viewpoints and may participate in planning, implementing, and evaluating the district's program.

**Parent/Guardian Consent**

Annually, parents/guardians shall be notified, in the manner specified in the accompanying administrative regulation, that they may request in writing that their child be excused from participating in comprehensive sexual health and HIV prevention education. Students so excused by their parents/guardians shall be given an alternative educational activity. (Education Code 51240, 51938, 51939)

A student shall not be subject to disciplinary action, academic penalty, or other sanction if the student's parent/guardian declines to permit the student to receive the instruction. (Education Code 51939)
