---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6142.74"
title: "Alternative Credits for Physical Education 2 (ACPE)"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "12/16/2024"
date_last_reviewed: "12/16/2024"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=y9ADe3V26zb5joBpX461ZQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

NOTE: The terms of this Administrative Regulation are effective beginning with applications submitted for consideration for the 2011-2012 school year.

Alternative Credits for Physical Education 2 Requirement

Board of Education Policy allows students in grades 10 through 12 to apply to earn credits for the Physical Education 2 requirement in lieu of enrolling in regular physical education classes at school. Students must adhere to the guidelines described in this Administrative Regulation. It is not the intent of this policy to use this program for the purpose of taking another class. Pursuing alternative credits to complete Physical Education 2 will cause an unscheduled period during the day, either 1st or 6th period. Alternative credits are used to meet Physical Education 2 requirements only, not as elective credit. A maximum of 20 credits may be earned through the Alternative Credits for Physical Education process between grades 10 through 12. Students may apply for one semester or a full school year at a time. If a student participates in a school sport, he or she is not eligible to earn ACPE credits during the season in which the sport takes place. For example, if a student participates on the high school soccer team, he/she cannot concurrently earn alternative credits for Physical Education through participation in the soccer season.

This regulation does not apply to the district independent study program. Physical Education in Independent Study follows CDE and Board Policy Guidelines.

Qualifications/Requirements of the Application

Students applying to earn alternative credits for Physical Education must demonstrate the following qualifications:

1. "C" average with no F's or loss of credit in previous semester and satisfactory attendance as determined by the Vice-Principal.
2. May not be in the first year of the competitive sport or activity and preferably has at least two years of experience in the selected sport or activity.
3. Completed application forms
4. Evidence of a minimum of 10 hours per week for every week school is in session under the direct supervision and/or instruction of the coach or trainer.
5. Evidence of competition at the Regional, State, or National level. The levels of competition are hierarchical and increase in difficulty from Regional to National. Regional means that competitions occur across multiple counties within a specified region in the state and include competitors from other counties to gain a state level ranking or title. For example - Northern, Central or Southern regions of California. State means that competitions occur state-wide and/or across several states and include competitors from participating states and/or within the state to gain a state level ranking or title. National means that competition occurs with competitors nationwide to achieve a national level ranking or title. Evidence of competition must be attached to the application form. This can be in the form of event results documents, certificates, photographs, organization web page information, event programs, news articles or other appropriate documentation that verifies competition at the specified level.
6. Commitment by student to fulfill the written exit grade-level standards
7. Assure that all deadlines are met
8. Must participate in the California Physical Fitness Test in grade 9, in order to be eligible for ACPE
9. Must not be an excluded ACPE activity

The Coach/Trainer who will be providing the direct supervision and instruction to the student will be required to complete the Coach/Trainer Agreement and meet the following qualifications for initial application to ACPE:

1. Must be 21 years of age or older
2. Possess a valid CPR/1st Aid certificate
3. Meet the fingerprint requirement
4. Provide proof of coach /trainer certification with a recognized organization

Excluded Activities

Activities specifically excluded from approval through RESIG, School and College Legal Services or district Business Services will not be considered as options for ACPE. Specific equestrian activities such as Western Rodeo are excluded as eligible activities. The district reserves the right to exclude activities at any time based on new information provided by appropriate governing entities.

Application Deadlines

For Fall Semester - May 5

For Spring Semester - December 1

For Full Year - May 5

How to Apply

Obtain applications from the school counseling office. Return completed forms to the school counselor by the appropriate application deadlines.

Approval Process

The counselor will check the application to assure it is complete and that the student meets all of the qualifications. The counselor will sign the application along with the Vice-Principal and forward it to the ACPE District Panel. The Panel will be composed of five members from across the district: two physical education instructors, one counselor, one vice-principal, and one parent. The panel will approve or deny applications and will notify each school's counseling office of the decision so that schedules can be changed. ACPE will cause an unscheduled period during the day, either 1st or 6th period.

Coaches/Teachers

Students will be expected to work under the direct supervision and/or instruction of qualified coaches and certificated teachers. The school will determine the certificated teacher with whom the student will work. Student must meet with the designated PE teacher within the first two weeks of the semester and at other mutually scheduled times during the ISPE period. The student's coach or trainer will verify the number of hours the student practices in the activity under his/her direct supervision, the expected level and frequency of competition, as well as the level of competition in which the student will participate. The certificated teacher will provide a plan for meeting the written exit outcomes for that grade level.

Assigning the Grade

The coach or trainer will be required to report the student's progress to the certificated teacher on a quarterly basis one week prior to the end of the grading period completing the Quarterly Coach/Trainer Hour Verification Form. Assignment deadlines are to be determined by the teacher. The certificated teacher to whom the student is assigned will be responsible for entering a Credit(CR)/No Credit(NC) grade into the student's record.

Grading

Credit(CR)/No Credit(NC) is based on successful completion of the exit criteria and verification of 10 hours of training per week.

Responsibilities

It is the student's, parent's and coach/trainer's responsibility to meet all deadlines and requirements of the program. Failure to meet the deadlines pertaining to assignments, submission of hour verification forms and the written exit criteria will result in a grade of No Credit(NC) and the loss of credit. Any student who fails to meet all requirements for ACPE as specified in this regulation will be dropped from the program, will earn a No Credit(NC) grade and become ineligible to earn alternative credits towards Physical Education for the remainder of his/her high school tenure. In rare cases, any medically-related injury or condition that may prevent a student from completing the requirements for ACPE may be dropped without penalty and will be required to undergo a case review to determine future ACPE eligibility.

State Physical Fitness Testing

The State requires the district to test all students in grades 5, 7, and 9 for physical performance. Students enrolled in Independent Study Physical Education will be tested for physical fitness in the months of March, April or May along with other students (Education Code 60608 and 60800/Assembly Bill 265). Students must take and pass the state physical fitness test (PFT) with a passing score in five out of six Healthy Fitness Zones (HFZ) in order to initially qualify for ACPE.

Appeal Process

The applicant may appeal the decision of the panel to the Assistant Superintendent in the Office of Curriculum and Instruction, 7-12. The appeal must be made within 10 workdays of receipt of the decision letter. The grounds for appeal should be submitted in writing and will be based on either new information or unfair procedures. The Assistant Superintendent or designee will conduct a meeting with the parents or guardians making the appeal and render a decision within three workdays.
