---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6145.2"
title: "Athletic Competition"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "12/11/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "12/11/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=FIuwj53GSiwTZ1fcLaLfZQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that the district's athletic program constitutes an integral component of the educational program and helps to build a positive school climate. The athletic program also promotes the physical, social, and emotional well-being and character development of participating students. The district's athletic program shall be designed to meet students' interests and abilities and shall be varied in scope to attract wide participation.

All athletic teams shall be supervised by qualified coaches to ensure that student athletes receive appropriate instruction and guidance related to safety, health, sports skills, and sportsmanship. Athletic events shall be officiated by qualified personnel.

The Board encourages business and community support for district athletic programs, subject to applicable district policies and regulations governing advertisements and donations.

**Nondiscrimination and Equivalent Opportunities in the Athletic Program**

The district's athletic program shall be free from discrimination and discriminatory practices prohibited by state and federal law, including, but not limited to, the use of any racially derogatory or discriminatory school or athletic team name, mascot, or nickname. The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that equivalent athletic opportunities are provided for males and females, and that students are permitted to participate in athletic activities consistent with their gender identity.

Any complaint alleging discrimination in the district's athletic program shall be filed in accordance with the district's uniform complaint procedures.

**California Interscholastic Federation**

Any district school that participates in the California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) shall conduct its athletic activities in accordance with CIF bylaws and rules and any applicable district policy and regulation. The Superintendent or designee shall have responsibility for the district's interscholastic athletic program, while the principal or designee at each participating school shall be responsible for site-level decisions, as appropriate.

The Board shall annually designate a representative to the local CIF league from each school that participates in CIF sports. The Superintendent or designee shall recommend a candidate for the position who demonstrates an understanding of the district's goals for student learning and interscholastic activities, knowledge of the athletic programs, awareness of the implications of league decisions for the school and the district, and interpersonal communication and leadership skills.

The designated representative(s) shall vote on issues that impact interscholastic athletics at the league and section levels, perform any other duties required by the CIF league, and report regularly to the Board on league, section, and statewide issues related to athletic programs.

**Student Eligibility**

Eligibility requirements for student participation in the district's interscholastic athletic program, including requirements pertaining to academic achievement, shall be the same as those set by the district for participation in extracurricular and cocurricular activities.

In addition, the Superintendent or designee shall ensure that students participating in interscholastic athletics governed by CIF satisfy CIF eligibility requirements.

Students shall not be charged a fee to participate in an athletic program, including, but not limited to, a fee to cover the cost of uniforms, locks, lockers, or athletic equipment.

**Sportsmanship**

The Board values the quality and integrity of the athletic program and the character development of student athletes. Student athletes, coaches, parents/guardians, spectators, and others are expected to demonstrate good sportsmanship, ethical conduct, and fair play during all athletic competitions. They shall also abide by the core principles of trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring, and good citizenship and the Code of Ethics adopted by CIF.

Students and staff shall be subject to disciplinary action for improper conduct.

**Health and Safety**

The Board desires to give student health and safety the highest consideration in planning and conducting athletic activities.

Students shall have a medical clearance before participating in interscholastic athletic programs. Care shall be taken to ensure that all athletic trainings and competitions are conducted in a manner that will not overtax the physical capabilities of the participants. When appropriate, protective equipment shall be used to prevent or minimize injuries.

Coaches and appropriate district employees shall take every possible precaution to ensure that athletic equipment is kept in safe and serviceable condition. The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that all athletic equipment is cleaned and inspected for safety before the beginning of each school year.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop a written emergency action plan that describes the location of automated external defibrillator(s) and procedures to be followed in the event of sudden cardiac arrest or other medical emergency related to the athletic program's activities or events. The plan shall be posted in accordance with guidelines of the National Federation of State High School Associations. (Education Code 35179.4)

In the event of a serious injury or a perceived imminent risk to a student's health during or immediately after an athletic activity, the coach or any other district employee who is present shall remove the student athlete from the activity, observe universal precautions in handling blood or other bodily fluid, and/or seek medical treatment for the student as appropriate.

Whenever a serious injury or illness is suffered by a student athlete, the Superintendent or designee shall notify the student's parent/guardian of the date, time, and extent of any injury or illness suffered by the student and any actions taken to treat the student.
