---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6145.6"
title: "International Exchange"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=EME0VXIPxbDFNW66YvLmxg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Admission**

In order to approve the admission of an international exchange student, the Superintendent or designee must receive a written request for enrollment before the end of the preceding school year. Enrollment shall be for one year only.

All international exchange students shall meet state and district immunization requirements.

The Superintendent or designee shall limit the number of international exchange students to be accepted at any district high school as a maximum of twenty (20) students, per school year. Only four (4) international exchange students shall be allowed to attend one high school, per school year, and enrollment is subject to available space.

International Exchange Students shall:

1. Have the ability to communicate fluently in the English language with respect to: reading, writing and speaking;
2. Possess a detailed transcript, in English, for registration;
3. Be assigned in the appropriate school attendance zone to a responsible family who has been assigned medical and financial responsibility for the student, through a sponsoring organization; and
4. Be a student in good standing and have completed three successful years of high school study OR ITS EQUIVALENT, in order to be eligible for enrollment as a high school senior in the 12th grade.

**Athletics**

International exchange students shall be eligible for participation in interscholastic sports in accordance with state bylaws of the California Interscholastic Federation as well as applicable section bylaws.

**Honorary Diplomas**

From SRCS AR 6146.1 - Honorary Diploma for Visiting Foreign Students:

International exchange students may receive an honorary diploma, provided they have met the following criteria:

The student must:

1. Complete two semesters of residency in a Santa Rosa City Schools high school.
2. Have completed the equivalent of the 11th grade in the school system of the student's home country.
3. Successfully complete (no failing grades) the following courses: English (2 semesters), U.S. History (2 semesters), American Government (1 semester), Senior elective (1 semester).
4. Successfully complete (no failing grades) all other course work attempted.
5. Maintain good attendance, i.e., no loss of credits in any classes as per Santa Rosa City Schools Secondary Attendance Policy.
6. Maintain good behavior, i.e., no violations that would result in an expellable offense as per Santa Rosa City Schools Discipline Policy, rules and procedures.

At the discretion of the principal or designee, international exchange students who do not meet requirements for an honorary diploma may, at the end of their visit, be given a letter certifying the time period for which they were enrolled.
