---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6145.5"
title: "Student Organizations And Equal Access"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=j3X6T4WNcKMKKGdpbmqd5g%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Because the district has established a limited open forum, the principal or designee shall not deny any student-initiated school group access to school facilities during noninstructional time on the basis of religious, political, philosophical, or any other content of speech to be addressed at such meetings. (20 USC 4071)

Such meetings shall not interfere with regular school activities. The Superintendent or designee shall identify the noninstructional time period(s) set aside for meetings of student groups either before or after actual classroom instruction times.

Meetings may also be held during the lunch period.

Meetings held within the limited open forum shall entail no expenditure of public funds beyond the incidental cost of providing the meeting space. (20 USC 4071)

Students shall leave the meeting place in a clean, orderly, and secure condition after their meetings. The Superintendent or designee may deny the use of facilities to any group that he/she believes will materially disrupt the school program or threaten the health and safety of students and staff. (20 USC 4071)

**Authorization for Student Groups**

Any student wishing to create either a curriculum- or noncurriculum-related student group shall first request authorization from the principal or designee. The group shall provide the principal or designee with the following information:

1. Name of the organization and names of student contacts
2. A statement of the organization's purposes, objectives, and activities
3. A copy of the proposed bylaws of the student group, including a description of how officers will be selected, as well as the bylaws of any off-campus organization with which the group may be affiliated
4. The name of the proposed faculty advisor, if any
5. The proposed dates, times, and location of meetings
6. Any special equipment to be used
7. A description of the qualifications for membership, if any
8. If a curriculum-related group, a statement of the relation of the club to the curriculum and/or instructional program

The principal or designee may establish school rules governing the meetings of curriculum-related groups, such as attendance or grade requirements. Such rules may vary depending on the group, such as whether or not academic credit is given for participation in the group.

**Role of Staff Adviser**

For any curriculum-related student group, the staff adviser shall provide guidance and teaching to students to ensure that the group's activities are aligned to the district's goals and objectives and shall provide supervision and leadership of the group. The principal shall have final authority in determining the assignment and role of the staff adviser.

For noncurriculum-related student groups, a staff adviser may be assigned voluntarily to observe meetings for purposes of maintaining order and protecting student safety. Staff advisers and other school employees shall not promote, lead, or participate in the meetings. (20 USC 4071, 4072)

A school employee may refuse to attend a meeting of a student group if the content of the speech at the meeting is contrary to the employee's beliefs. (20 USC 4071)

**Hazing**

Any student who engages in hazing may be subject to discipline including, but not limited to, suspension or expulsion. Hazing means a method of initiation or pre-initiation into a student organization or body, whether or not the organization or body is officially recognized by the district, which is likely to cause serious bodily injury or personal degradation or disgrace resulting in physical or mental harm to a former, current, or prospective student. (Education Code 48900)
