---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6145.6"
title: "International Exchange"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=GPfwVbZVXHdakDP76XplusVPQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that personal contact between students of different countries and cultures promotes global awareness and international understanding. To that end, the Board welcomes the enrollment of international exchange students.

**International Student Exchange Programs**

To enroll in a district school, an international exchange student must be participating in an exchange program designated by the California Attorney General's Office, or listed by the U.S. Department of State.

When necessary because of overcrowding within district schools or limited district resources, the Superintendent or designee may limit the number of international exchange students to be accepted at any district high school during any school year. International exchange students who do not exhibit high school grade level English proficiency shall not be admitted to any district school.

The district shall not incur any financial obligations when receiving international exchange students. Program sponsors shall provide assurance of their responsibility for health/accident/liability insurance, the student's home placement, and the resolution of any related personal difficulties which may arise.

The Superintendent or designee shall establish district criteria for issuing honorary diplomas to international exchange students based upon transcript evaluations and English language fluency. The principal or designee shall refer to these criteria when assisting international exchange students in selecting classes and co-curricular activities based on the student's individual qualifications, needs and interests.
