---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6145.5"
title: "Student Organizations And Equal Access"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=8mOYgDaVRVoTKtsL7f2vRg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education believes that student groups or clubs reinforce the instructional program, give students experience in civics and government, and provide social and recreational activities. Student groups also serve to honor outstanding student achievement and enhance school spirit and students' sense of belonging. Prior to meeting on school grounds, all student groups shall be authorized by the principal or designee in accordance with Board policy and administrative regulation.

The Board encourages students to pursue interests and clubs which may not directly relate to the district's curriculum and, to that end, has created a limited open forum.

All student-initiated groups shall be given equal access to meet on school premises during noninstructional time without regard to their religious, political, philosophical, or other speech content. The Board shall ensure that: (20 USC 4071, 4072)

1. The meeting shall be voluntary and student-initiated.
2. There shall be no sponsorship of the meeting by the school or staff. The term sponsorship means that school staff are promoting, leading, or participating in a meeting. The assignment of a teacher, administrator, or other school employee to a meeting for custodial purposes shall not constitute sponsorship of the meeting.
3. Employees of the school shall be present at religious meetings only in a nonparticipatory capacity.
4. The meeting shall not materially and substantially interfere with the orderly conduct of educational activities within the school.
5. Nonschool persons shall not direct, conduct, control, or regularly attend activities of student groups.

All student clubs or groups shall have equal access to the school media to announce meetings, including the public address system, the school newspaper, bulletin boards, and school web site. However, the principal or designee may issue a disclaimer that such activities are not school-sponsored.

All noncurriculum-related student groups shall be given equal access to meeting space, school equipment, and supplies.

No school shall deny equal access or a fair opportunity to meet, or otherwise discriminate against, any group officially affiliated with the Boy Scouts of America, or with any other youth group listed as a patriotic society in Title 36 of the United States Code, for reasons based on the membership or leadership criteria or oath of allegiance to God and country. (20 USC 7905)
