---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.2-E PDF(1)"
title: "Certificate Of Proficiency/High School Equivalency"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=FRG69eplusqDuRQ6BhpVtrP4w%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Santa Rosa City SchoolsFORM - Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
Application for waiver of up to two elective high school
Graduation credits based on unusual circumstances
Instructions:
Please review the district's Administration Regulation 6146.1 prior to completing this form.
This form
must be completed signed and provided to the Superintendent's office no later than thirty business days
prior to high school graduation for the year the waiver is requested.
Providing the completed form does not automatically guarantee a waiver will be granted.
Once the
application is submitted, the Superintendent or designee will respond to the request within ten business
days with his or her decision.
Please attached any and all materials and/or documentation that would establish the existence of the
unusual circumstances justifying a waiver (e.g., physician's letter).
Please attach additional pages if
necessary to the narrative section.
Parents or adult students with limited English proficiency may request that this application and/or the
policy and procedure be provided in a language that they understand.
Student Identification (required)
Name of person completing this form:
___________________________________________
Relationship to student:
_______________________________________________________
Address of person completing this form:
_________________________________________
Daytime phone number:
______________________________________________________
Student's Name:
____________________________________________________________
Student's ID Number/Date of Birth:
_____________________________________________
Expected year of graduation:
__________________________________________________
Basic for Waiver Request (required) (check all that apply):
____ Disability (regardless of whether student has an IEP or Section 504 plan)
____ Health condition resulting in student's inability to attend class
____ Homelessness
____ Limited English proficiency
____ Course availability due to a teacher shortage in a particular credentialing area

____ Transfer during the last two years of high school from a school with different graduation
requirements
____ Other circumstances (e.g., emergency, natural disasters, trauma, personal or family crisis) that
directly compromised the student's ability to learn.
Narrative:
(required)
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
Signature and Authorization:
(required)
I am requesting that the Superintendent or designee waive (insert up to ten elective credits) required for
(insert student's name) high school graduation in (insert year) due to the unusual circumstances
indicated above.
I hereby authorize the Superintendent or designee to contact, consult and/or confer with any individual
referenced in this application who would have knowledge of the unusual circumstance, except for
those subject to a duty of confidentiality.
I hereby certify the information provided on this application is true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.
Signature of parent or adult student
___________________________ Date:
_________
__________________________________________________________ _______________
Signature of School Administrator verifying the Application Information Date
