---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.4"
title: "Differential Graduation And Competency Standards For Students With Disabilities"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "09/28/2023"
date_last_reviewed: "09/28/2023"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=pg6R1UKHAslsh72UVtDUfpUpQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In alignment with Education Code 51225., 51225.31, and SRCS BP 6145.4

*“ Prior to the beginning of grade 10, the individualized education program (IEP) team for each student with disabilities shall determine whether the student is eligible for exemption from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the Board in addition to the statewide course requirements for high school graduation, and if so, shall notify the student's parent/guardian of the exemption. A student with disabilities shall be eligible for the exemption if the student's IEP provides for both of the following requirements: (Education Code 51225.31)*

1. That the student take the alternate assessment aligned to alternate achievement standards in grade 11 as described in Education Code 60640
2. That the student complete state standards aligned coursework to meet the statewide coursework specified in Education Code 51225.3"

The above exemption is considered to be a subset of special education students who specifically:

1. Qualify for the state alternative assessment test, and,
2. Take the alternative assessment during their 11 grade.

If these students meet the requirements above, the IEP will document this as an option for families during the IEP meeting noted below. Families will be presented with the state graduation requirements of 130 credits as listed in California Ed Code 51225.3

For students who do not meet the qualification above, alternative pathways for graduation may be considered by the IEP team. During the evaluation of the student’s Individual Transition Plan (ITP), the Team will consider the student’s progress for graduation with a presentation at the IEP meeting and review BP 6146.4. The Team will document the student’s on-track progress toward the District’s diploma track of 220. If the student is not “on track” for graduation at 220 credits, the Team may consider that the student is best served to maintain a 220 track for graduation and the Alternative Course of Study.

It is the intent of the regulation to have students with disabilities aspire to meet all the conditions of their general education peers. However, based on the student's experiences and input from the family, student, and school staff, the IEP team may consider other pathway options. This regulation expects IEP teams to consider the most rigorous and general education compatible graduation pathway that is appropriate for the individual student. As an example, a team can consider a 205, or a 195 and not create a lower bar than necessary. As long as it still meets the State 130 credit requirements.

It is expected that the teams consider in a linear order at each annual IEP the most rigorous pathway in the following sequence.

During the 9th grade year, determine if the student is appropriate for:

- The standard SRCS 220 graduation requirement and diploma, or
- The Alternative Assessment pathway

During the 10th-grade annual IEP meeting, the team will review the student’s graduation progress and may consider:

- An SRCS 220 diploma graduation pathway without the a-g additional courses, or
- An SRCS 180 graduation alternative pathway (currently in use at Ridgway) at the student's home school AR 6146.4 Exhibit 1

During the 11th-grade annual IEP meeting, the team will review the student’s graduation progress and may consider:

- An SRCS 180 graduation alternative pathway at the student's home school, or
- The State 130 graduation alternative pathway, or
- The Certificate of Completion graduation alternative pathway

It is noted that while this sequence is preferred, each team may consider the appropriate sequence that meets the requirements of BP 6146.4, BP 6146.1, Education Code 51225.3, 51225.31 and IDEA statutes.

In addition, the IEP team will make the meeting notes the following:

*“The IEP Team will take into consideration:*

1. Were the Ed. Rights holders and the student made aware of the available options?
2. Were the courses that the student is deficient in available during Summer Credit Recovery?
3. Is the student able to access independent learning appropriately for CyberHigh or other credit recovery platforms?
4. Are there options for a 180 diploma track available?
5. Has the IEP team discussed the pros/cons of a 5th year (like preparing students for community college) and determined the cons outweigh the pros.?
6. Were the Ed. Rights holders and the student made aware that regardless of their credits they may participate in Senior graduation activities?
7. Was the input of each team member recorded in the notes of the IEP meeting?” If, after full input from all attending SRCS staff, parents, and students, the decision to allow an alternative pathway for graduation is made by the Administrative Designee at the meeting as in any IEP.

If, after full input from all attending SRCS staff, parents, and students, the decision to allow an alternative pathway for graduation is made by the Administrative Designee at the meeting as in any IEP.
