---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.1"
title: "High School Graduation Requirements"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "02/25/2026"
date_last_reviewed: "02/25/2026"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=VGh3AR9aqJJPzzRo4wOPbQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to prepare all students to obtain a high school diploma to enable them to take advantage of opportunities for postsecondary education and employment.

(cf. 5127 - Graduation Ceremonies and Activities)

(cf. 5147 - Dropout Prevention)

(cf. 6011 - Academic Standards)

(cf. 6143 - Courses of Study)

(cf. 6146.3 - Reciprocity of Academic Credit)

Course Requirements

Beginning with the class of 2022, to obtain a high school diploma, students shall complete 220 credits in the following courses in grades 9-12, with each course being one year unless otherwise specified:

Three courses in social studies (30 credits): including United States history and World History ( including culture, and geography of the world). Additionally, two semester long courses, one course in American government (civics) and one course in Economics. (Education Code 51225.3)

(cf. 6142.3 - Civic Education)

(cf. 6142.94 - History-Social Science Instruction)

Four courses in English (40 credits): English 1, English 2, English 3, English 4 or their equivalent. Newcomers English is accepted for one year (10 credits) of this requirement. (Education Code 51225.3)

(cf. 6142.91 - Reading/Language Arts Instruction)

Three courses in mathematics (30 credits): At least one Mathematics course shall meet or exceed state academic content standards for Integrated Mathematics I. The two additional years of

Mathematics must exceed the content standards of Integrated Mathematics 1. (Education Code 51225.3)

Completion of Integrated Math 1 with a grade of ‘C’ or better prior to grade 9 shall satisfy the requirement and allow for placement in a Math 2 level course. High school credits will not be awarded. Two additional mathematics courses exceeding the content standards of Integrated Math 1 in grades 9-12 shall meet the requirement. (Education Code 51224.5)

(cf. 6142.92 - Mathematics Instruction)

(cf. 6152.1 - Placement in Mathematics Courses)

Two courses in science (20 credits): Including biological and physical sciences (Education Code 51225.3)

(cf. 6142.93 - Science Instruction)

Two sequential courses in a Language Other Than English (20 credits) The first-year of Language Other Than English may be met prior to high school with a grade of “C” or better in middle school. A student will have to take the same language in 7th and 8th grade, however, high school credits will not be awarded. Additionally, placement in and completion of a Level 2 course will satisfy this requirement. A student whose primary language is designated other than English is exempt from the core graduation requirement of two years of a Language Other than English course, as long as their formal instruction in the Language Other Than English took place after the 6th grade. A student may receive a waiver from the two-year Language Other Than English requirement due to a specific learning disability, if it is clearly stated in his/her IEP or state standardized test results show a need for intensive academic intervention. (Please see AR 6146.1 High School Graduation Requirements - World Language.)

(cf. 6142.2 - World/Foreign Language Instruction)

(cf. 6142.6 - Visual and Performing Arts Education)

One course in visual or performing arts (10 credits) (Education Code 51225.3)

One College Preparatory Elective (10 credits). One year of Career and Technical Education is recommended.

To be counted towards meeting graduation requirements, a CTE course shall be aligned to the CTE model curriculum standards and framework adopted by the State Board of Education.

(cf. 6178 - Career Technical Education)

(cf. 6178.2 - Regional Occupational Center/Program)

Additional Graduation Requirements

Two courses (20 credits) in physical education, unless the student has been otherwise exempted pursuant to other sections of the Education Code (Education Code 51225.3)

(cf. 6142.7 - Physical Education and Activity)

(cf. 6142.1 - Sexual Health and HIV/AIDS Prevention Instruction)

(cf. 6142.4 - Service Learning/Community Service Classes)

(cf. 6142.8 - Comprehensive Health Education)

Beginning with the class of 2025, successful completion of a single two-semester course or two semesters (10 credits) of any a-g offerings in Ethnic Studies, including courses offered through dual or concurrent enrollment. Any Ethnic Studies course taken shall meet a UC/CSU a-g course requirement and shall also accrue credit for coursework in the subject that course is offered. Completion of the middle school Ethnic Studies elective course with a grade of ‘C’ or better prior to grade 9 shall satisfy the graduation requirement, though high school credits will not be awarded.

Education Code 51225.3

Education Code 51226.7

Up to an additional (70) credits of electives, to be chosen by the student and parents from the

course offerings listed in the College and Career Readiness Guide

Alternative Credits Toward Graduation

Graduation with an Industry Concentration Certificate

An Industry Concentration is a path to a college and career future that integrates a-g

courses, early-college credit opportunities, and work-based learning. Completion of an Industry Concentration leads to meeting most of the a-g eligibility requirements, graduation from high school, and provides greater access for students to complete a Career Technical Education (CTE) Program in a California Department of Education industry sector.

Students begin the Industry Concentration as early as 10th grade. Students completing an Industry Concentration will still meet the 220 credits graduation requirement; integrated with an industry sector concentration that includes CTE courses. Students may participate in dual enrollment at a local college or university with approved agreements, and pre-approved work-based learning. Santa Rosa City Schools 10th, 11th, and 12th-grade students may be identified to participate in an Industry Concentration at their school.

Alternative Education

If an administrator so recommends, an alternate 180-credit course of study is available for students at Ridgway Continuation High School, or the Individualized Education Program Team can determine that an alternate course of study may be available.

Prior to the beginning of grade 10, the individualized education program (IEP) team for each student with disabilities shall determine whether the student is eligible for exemption from all coursework and other requirements adopted by the Board in addition to the statewide course requirements for high school graduation, and if so, shall notify the student's parent/guardian of the exemption. A student with disabilities shall be eligiblefor the exemption, if the student's IEP provides for both of the following requirements: (Education Code51225.31)

1. That the student take the alternate assessment aligned to alternate achievement standards in grade 11 as

described in Education Code 60640

2. That the student completes state standards aligned coursework to meet the statewide coursework specified in Education Code 51225.3

(cf. 6146.11 - Alternative Credits Toward Graduation)

(cf. 6146.2 - Certificate of Proficiency/High School Equivalency

(cf. 6146.4 - Differential Graduation and Competency Standards for Students with Disabilities)

Exemptions and Waivers

Definition:

A waiver is a process that intentionally excuses a student from specific graduation requirements based on certain factors. By waiving Math and/or LOTE course(s), students will remain on track toward graduating with a Santa Rosa City Schools diploma; however by utilizing a waiver, students will not be eligible to apply directly to a CSU or UC college because the “a-g” requirements have not been fulfilled. A waiver is initiated by specific paperwork that must be completed by a student, the student’s guardian, and school personnel.

**Math Waiver Consideration:**

Students shall be encouraged to complete UC eligibility requirements in mathematics, but may omit thethird year of math upon written, knowledgeable application by a student’s parent/ guardian.

Please note: waivers for math courses DO NOT exempt the student from the two-year CaliforniaDepartment of Education (CDE) mathematics requirement (20 credits) which includes the state requirement of students having to pass Math 1P (the equivalent of Algebra 1P). Students still must earn 20 math credits to graduate from SRCS.

*This waiver only exempts a student from one year of the three-year SRCS math requirement for graduation.*

**Language Other than English (LOTE) Consideration:**

Please note: waivers for LOTE DO NOT exempt the student from the one-year California Department of Education (CDE) LOTE requirement (10 credits). Students still must earn 10 credits to graduate.

This waiver only exempts a student from one year of the two years of the same language of LOTE that is required for graduation.

Determine if the following criteria apply:

❏ A current junior (Class of 2025) or senior (Class of 2024) who cannot meet the 2 year LOTE requirement

❏ Did not pass 2nd year of a LOTE (2 semesters)

A foster youth, homeless students, or former juvenile court school students who transfer into the district any time after completing their second year of high school shall be required to complete all graduation requirements specified in Education Code 51225.3 but shall be exempt from any additional district- adopted graduation requirements, unless the Superintendent or designee makes a finding that the student is reasonably able to complete the requirements in time to graduate by the end of his/her fourth year of high school. Within 30 days of the transfer, any such student shall be notified of the availability of the exemption and whether he/she qualifies for it. (Education Code 51225.1)

(cf. 1312.3 - Uniform Complaint Procedures)

(cf. 5145.6 - Parental Notifications)

(cf. 6173 - Education for Homeless Children)

(cf. 6173.1 - Education for Foster Youth)

(cf. 6173.3 - Education for Juvenile Court School Students)

In addition, the Superintendent or designee shall facilitate the on-time graduation of children of military families by waiving specific course requirements for graduation if the student has satisfactorily completed similar coursework in another district. (Education Code 49701)

(cf. 6173.2 - Education for Children of Military Families)

Retroactive Diplomas

Until July 31, 2018, any student who completed grade 12 in the 2003-04 school year or a subsequent school year and has met all applicable graduation requirements other than the passage of the high school exit examination shall be granted a high school diploma. (Education Code 60851.6)

The district may retroactively grant a high school diploma to a former student who was interned by order of the federal government during World War II or who is an honorably discharged veteran of World War II, the Korean War, or the Vietnam War, provided that he/she was enrolled in a district school immediately preceding the internment or military service and he/she did not receive a diploma because his/her education was interrupted due to the internment or military service. A deceased former student who satisfies these conditions may be granted a retroactive diploma to be received by his/her next of kin. (Education Code 51430)

In addition, the district may grant a diploma to a veteran who entered the military service of the United States while he/she was a district student in grade 12 and who had completed the first half of the work required for grade 12. (Education Code 51440)

COURT DECISIONS

O'Connell v. Superior Court (Valenzuela), (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452

Management Resources:

WEB SITES CSBA: http://www.csba.org

California Department of Education, High School: http://www.cde.ca.gov/ci/gs/hs

University of California, List of Approved a-g Courses:

http://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/admissions/freshman/requirements

Policy SANTA ROSA CITY SCHOOLS

adopted: December 20, 2023, Santa Rosa, California

revised: June 14, 2023

revised: May 24, 2023

revised: October 28, 2020

revised: March 25, 2020

revised: June 13, 2018

revised: April 25, 2018

revised: May 24, 2017

revised: February 26, 2014

revised: January 16, 2013

revised: May 23, 2012

revised: November, 9, 2011
