---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.11"
title: "Alternative Credits Toward Graduation"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "05/13/2026"
date_last_reviewed: "05/13/2026"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=kEFECWuplusIplushi0ChTqI4Ktw%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Physical Education Credit for Interscholastic Athletics**

Board Policy 6146.1-High School Graduation Requirements requires that students, as part of their core curriculum, complete two year-long courses in Physical Education and demonstrate proficiency in meeting state-adopted standards. The state's goal is to have students achieve the Healthy Fitness Zones (HFZ) for all six fitness areas of the State Physical Fitness Test.

In lieu of attending two of the four required semesters of Physical Education for graduation, Santa Rosa City Schools offers students in grades 10, 11, or 12, credit for Physical Education, not to exceed a total of 10 credits, for participating in an interscholastic sport while in those specific grades.

Prior to 10th, 11th, or 12th grade, a student applying for and receiving such credits would need to have successfully completed two semesters of Physical Education to meet the high school graduation requirement.

The Physical Education credit, based on student participation in interscholastic athletics, will be awarded under the following conditions:

1. The student must:
  1. have previously earned ten credits in a high school (or equivalent) physical education course, preferably during his or her freshman year. An equivalent class for which physical education credit would be granted (such as Dance) would also qualify as a Physical Education course for the purpose of this Administrative Regulation.
  2. actively participate and successfully complete a season of a sport at the Varsity level or Junior Varsity level in a CIF-sanctioned interscholastic sport: Badminton, Baseball, Basketball, Cross Country, Football, Golf, Soccer, Softball, Swimming/Diving, Tennis, Track and Field, Volleyball, and Wrestling.
  3. consistently engage in at least two hours of daily physical activity with the school team's practice and participate on the day of competition to satisfy the "actively participate" requirement referenced above. Practicing with a club team does not qualify. Facility limitations in some sports may hinder the opportunity for active participation and may require the school to place an enrollment cap in a particular sport in order for athletes to meet the requirement for active participation.
  4. not exceed ten (10) non-medical absences during the season of sport. This requirement shall be verified through the coach's positive attendance records.
  5. adhere to CIF and district eligibility rules.
  6. complete and submit a Request for Physical Education Credit for Interscholastic Athletics form to the designated staff at each school requesting PE credit. The form must be submitted within 10 school days of the end of the season of sport. For spring sports, the form must be submitted to the designated staff no later than the second Friday in June.
2. If the student has been unable to participate as an active player (fully participating in the sport itself) due to medical reasons for a cumulative period of 10 school days or less, that student may, with a doctor's approval, return to practice and still qualify.
3. Athletic rosters will be submitted by the Athletic Director to the designated staff at each site at the end of the season to be used to verify a student's request for Physical Education credit.
4. It is the responsibility of each Head Coach of every sport to complete, maintain and submit to the designated staff at each site, accurate student attendance for practices and competitions as well as final athletic rosters in order to satisfy the student's request for Physical Education credit.
5. The Physical Education Credit for Interscholastic Athletics process will be monitored by the principal or her/his administrative designee at each site to ensure that all requirements of this Administrative Regulation have been met before assigning credit.

**Concurrent College and University Attendance and Credit**

1. Effective for the Class of 2004 and beyond, students in grades 7-12 may enroll in accredited college and university courses and receive concurrent credit under the following conditions:
  1. Enrollment in the course should be part of the educational program planned by the student, the student's parent or guardian, and the counselor, and under the supervision of the school administration.
  2. Except under the conditions specified in Education Code 46146, the minimum day of attendance in district schools shall be 180 minutes for any student who is enrolled part-time in a community college and any student in grades 11-12 who is enrolled part-time in the California State University or University of California, when the student is enrolled in classes for which academic credit will be provided upon satisfactory completion of enrolled courses. Santa Rosa City Schools recommends a minimum enrollment of 240 minutes (4 courses) in order for students to more fully participate in high school curriculum and activities designed for 11th -12th graders, and to meet the minimum requirement for full-day attendance.
  3. Accredited college or university courses may be taken to meet Santa Rosa City Schools' high school graduation requirements provided the college course is:
    1. Non-remedial in content,
    2. Eligible for transfer to CSU and UC campuses
    3. Aligned to State content and performance standards or National Common Core Standards when applicable, and
    4. Taken while enrolled in grades 9-12 inclusive [EC section 51225.3].
  4. Students passing the following Santa Rosa Junior College courses (or equivalent California Articulation Number courses) may transfer the credits to meet District core graduation requirements in the designated areas on Exhibit A.

5. Enrollment in a college or university course may be limited by the college or university.
6. To receive credit for coursework completed at a community college or four-year college, the student or parent/guardian shall submit a transcript showing completion of the course with a passing grade.
7. High school credit shall be based upon the following: College Semester Units High School Credits

0.50 1.67

1.00 3.34

1.50 5.01

2.00 6.68

2.50 8.35

3.00 10.02

4.00 13.36

4.50 15.03

5.00 16.70

10. The student shall receive the same letter grade (A, B, C, D, F) for the high school credit as is indicated on the college or university transcript.
11. Unless otherwise specified, no transportation shall be provided by the District for any student attending a college or university course or courses while enrolled in a District high school. Transportation arrangements are the sole responsibility of the student and the student's parents or guardian.
12. Students allowed to enroll in a college or university course are subject to the rules and regulations of the college or university, as well as the rules and regulations of the District.

**Graduation Credit for Correspondence/Telecommunication Courses**

Under certain circumstances students may receive credit for graduation from correspondence/telecommunication instruction through an accredited institution. Prior to registering for a correspondence course, the student or his/her parent/guardian shall obtain verification from the Superintendent or designee that the course is essentially equivalent to the high school curriculum and meets district graduation requirements. The number of semester credits assigned to the course shall be determined before the student begins coursework.

The district shall grant credit toward graduation for correspondence instruction if all of the following conditions are met: (Education Code 51740, 51741; CCR 1633)

1. The correspondence/telecommunication course is provided by the University of California, or other university or college in California accredited for teacher training, in subjects included within or related to the student's course of study. In addition, online courses considered UC eligible, are also acceptable. Proof of verification of accreditation is the responsibility of the parent/guardian(s).

Including credit earned from participation in the aforementioned online courses, no more than 50 credits from correspondence/telecommunication courses may be earned during grades 9 through 12 for students in the comprehensive high school setting while enrolled in SRCS schools. This includes online credit recovery courses (i.e. Cyber High, Acellus, etc.) and credit from telecommunications courses transferred from outside the district. Additionally, online credit recovery courses can only be taken for high school graduation credits if the student in the comprehensive high school setting has already taken, and failed, the course previously.

2. Both the 50 credit limit for correspondence/telecommunication courses, and the inability to take online credit recovery courses unless having already failed them, are waived for students enrolled in an SRCS alternative educational setting and/or program. These settings and/or programs include but are not limited to: the Grace Program at Piner High School; Ridgway Continuation High School; Home and Hospital; Independent Study; Individualized Education Programs (students with IEPs); SRCS summer school; Early College Magnet Program at Piner High School. If a student is enrolled in a SRCS alternative education setting and/or program as delineated above, and the course provides the student a necessary opportunity to meet graduation requirements within the typical four year timeframe, or as necessary for fifth year seniors, then a student may take more than 50 credits via correspondence/telecommunication courses and a student may accelerate credit accumulation through online correspondence/telecommunication courses without having already taken and failed the course. This would only be allowable in case-by-case situations where students in alternative settings and/or programs have graduation needs that dictate this as a necessity.

3. Pre-approval from the principal or her/his designee is needed for correspondence/telecommunication credit. No retroactive credit will be granted. Principal or designee may grant exceptions for retroactive credits from verified academic institutions.

4. A correspondence/telecommunication course may be weighted if it meets all of the guidelines of Board policy.

5. All costs incurred for online courses not offered by SRCS will be the responsibility of the parent/guardian(s).

6. Principal or designee may grant exceptions to credit limits for correspondence courses on a case-by-case basis, only in atypical situations with extenuating circumstances that greatly differ from the typical four year high school experience.

**Exhibit A:**

| **SRCS Graduation Requirements** | **UC/CSU A-G** | **SRCS** <br> **Courses** | **SRJC Approved** <br> **Courses** <br> (Updated annually based on SRJC current course titles) | **SRJC Approved** <br> **Courses** <br> (Updated annually based on SRJC current course titles) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| History/Social Science (30) | 2 years | World History (1 year) | HIST 1.1, 1.2, 4.1, 4.2 |  |
| History/Social Science (30) | 2 years | US History (1 year) | HIST 17.2 |  |
| History/Social Science (30) | 2 years | Government (1 sem) | POLS C1000 |  |
| History/Social Science (30) | 2 years | Economics (1 sem) | ECON 1, 2 * | **A-G note: Economics falls under “G”* |
| English (40) | 4 years | 9th-12th English | ENGL C1000, 1B <br> ENGL C1001** <br> EMLS 10 | ***prereq for Engl C1001 is Engl C1000 or AP equivalent score.* |
| Mathematics (30) | Geometry <br> Alg II <br> *Advanced mathematics course* (UC approved) <br> *Other higher math recommended* | Integrated Math 1, Math 2, and Math 3 | MATH 25 + MATH 58 (Pre-calc/Trig)* <br> MATH 27* (Pre-calc) <br> MATH 1A (Calc) <br> STATS C1000 (Statistics) | *MATH 25 + MATH 58 must both be taken to be eligible for MATH 1A <br> **No SRJC course equivalents offered for Math 1, Math 2, or 3. SRJC only offers higher-level math courses.** |
| Laboratory Science (20) | Lab Science in Physical and Life <br> *(Courses: Chemistry, Physics, Biology)* | Physical Science | ASTR 3 and ASTR 3L* <br> CHEM 42 <br> PHYS 11 | *Students can also take ASTR12 for the lab component instead of 3L |
| Laboratory Science (20) | Lab Science in Physical and Life <br> *(Courses: Chemistry, Physics, Biology)* | Biological Science | BIO 10 |  |
| Language Other Than English (20) | 2 years Language other than English (LOTE) | 2 years of the same Language Other Than English | ASL 1, 2** <br> FREN 1, 2** <br> GERM 1, 2** <br> ITAL 1, <br> JAPAN 1 <br> SPAN 1, 2**, 3, 40, 41 | **A-G note: 1 semester of**year 1**college language = 2 years high school.* <br> ****CAL-GETC note*: Only level 2, 3, or 4 of these college languages are accepted for 3B transfer requirements* |
| Fine Art/Language (10) | Visual & Performing Art (1 year) | Offerings vary by campus. <br> Example courses: <br> Art, Choir, Band, Theatre, Floral, Dance, Ceramics | ART 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 7A* <br> DANC 2,7 <br> FMA 4,10 <br> MUSC 1* | A-G note:*Grade of C or better in any transferable course of 3 semester units that clearly falls within one of four visual/performing arts disciplines: dance, drama/theater, music or visual art.* <br> *Courses must be directed at acquiring concepts, comprehensions, and skills in the arts disciplines, rather than using artistic activities to fulfill non-artistic course objectives.* <br> ***CAL-GETC note*: MUSC 1 and Art 7A does not meet Cal-GETC but is approved historically in UC Doorways* |
| Electives (50) | 1 Year ‘g’ approved course | ‘g’ approved elective* <br> **See UC Doorways for site-approved courses*. | All SRJC courses not listed under a subject area will be assigned to electives. | A-G note:*Grade of C or better in transferable college courses of at least 3 semester (4 quarter) units beyond those listed as clearing any of the "A-F" requirements.* |
| Physical Education (20) | N/A | PE 10* <br> Elective PE/Athletics | Any KFIT, KINC, KINA, KINT, DANC (except 2, 7, 3.1) | **PE 9 cannot be substituted or waived* <br> *Courses taken must total 3 units overall.* |
| Ethnic Studies |  |  | ETHS 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27* | **All ETHS courses listed also meet*Cal-GETC*Ethnic Studies requirement* |

1 unit at SRJC counts as 3.34 SRCS credits. Courses that are UC/CSU transferable receive honors credits.

***SRJC courses not listed under a-f can submit a request to the District Office to have the SRJC course approved to meet the SRCS graduation requirement. Courses from a different Community College and/or Junior College that have*matching CID Descriptors*to the pre-approved course list above can be considered an equivalent course, and the student does not need to complete the SRCS Dual Enrollment Graduation Credit Request form for approval*
