---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.1"
title: "High School Graduation Requirements"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "05/07/2024"
date_last_reviewed: "05/07/2024"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=wEc29umC18mW3Wpluszk7OtTg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**High School Graduation Requirements**

**Graduation Requirements, Alternative Diploma**

**Graduation with an Alternative Diploma**

Alternative graduation plans are developed as part of the admission process for the alternative course of study. Students may choose to graduate from Ridgway Continuation High School, if attending any SRCS high school, or GRACE Program, if attending Piner High School, by following a Board-approved alternative diploma path. Variable course credits are allowable in alternative education settings and within programs deemed alternative at a comprehensive high school site.

Students who complete high school courses required by the alternate path are eligible to continue education in a community college and/or may qualify for admission to a California State University or a private college or university. Students may then transfer from the community college to four-year colleges/universities if they so desire. Students may also apply for entrance into vocational programs, or for military service.

220-Unit Alternative Diploma for Ridgway and GRACE Program graduation requirements.

Three courses in social studies (30 credits): including United States history and World History ( including culture, and geography of the world). Additionally, two semester long courses, one course in American government (civics) and one course in Economics. (Education Code 51225.3)

Four courses in English (40 credits) English 1, English 2, English 3, English 4 or their equivalent. Newcomers English is accepted for one year (10 credits) of this requirement. (Education Code 51225.3)

Two courses in mathematics (20 credits)*: At least one Mathematics course shall meet or exceed state academic content standards for Integrated Mathematics I. The one additional year of Mathematics must exceed the content standards of Integrated Mathematics 1. (Education Code 51225.3)

Completion of Integrated Math 1 with a grade of ‘C’ or better prior to grade 9 shall satisfy the requirement and allow for placement in a Math 2 level course. High school credits will not be awarded. One additional mathematics course exceeding the content standards of Integrated Math 1 in grades 9-12 shall meet the requirement. (Education Code 51224.5)

Two courses in science (20 credits): Including biological and physical sciences (Education Code 51225.3)

One course in a Language Other Than English* or One course in Visual and Performing Arts or Career Technical Education. (10 credits) (Education Code 51225.3)

Two courses (20 credits) in physical education, unless the student has been otherwise exempted pursuant to other sections of the Education Code (Education Code 51225.3)

Electives (80 credits)

*Students transitioning from alternative education back to a comprehensive high school will be required to have Exhibit 5 (waiver of the third year of Math requirement and 1 - 2 years of LOTE) completed in order to facilitate a successful completion of high school.

180-Unit Alternative Diploma for Ridgway Continuation High School

**Administrative Selection Criteria for Ridgway High School (RHS)**

The alternative course of study, which is focused on achieving a 180 credit alternative diploma, is not an option for those students wishing to return to the comprehensive high school to graduate.

Ridgway High School may be selected to complete an alternate course of study for the purpose of graduating from high school within a four-year timeframe. If a student and the parent/guardian agree to this option, the student who has fulfilled the requirements for this course of study will graduate with an alternative diploma from the above-mentioned. Students who are selected to participate in the alternate course of study are those students who are unable to complete a 220-unit diploma within four years of high school and are at risk of dropping out.

Alternative school site staff will work in collaboration with site principals (or designees), the departments of Teaching and Learning K-12, and the Office of Information Technology to develop a list of students who meet the minimum criteria to be enrolled in RHS.

Students will be prioritized by grade level, 4th year high school students, followed by 3rd year, and then 16 year old second year students, with an emphasis on fulfilling the following outlined criteria.

Students considered as having met the criteria will:

1. Have earned approximately 130 credits by the end of the fall semester of their fourth year of high school, 100 credits by the end of their third year in high school, 70 credits by the end of the fall semester of their third year of high school, or 40 credits by the end of their second year of high school.
2. Have demonstrated the potential to complete 80 credits in a school year, and have the ability to master grade-level standards.
3. Have attempted to increase their rate of positive attendance at their comprehensive school site, or demonstrated the desire to attend an alternative educational setting.

Grades, attendance and discipline history are analyzed thoroughly to ensure that the student is committed to completing high school and that this option offers an avenue that will prevent the student from dropping out of high school. The list of eligible students will be submitted to Ridgway High School Staff for review each quarter.

Students and parents will be contacted by the counselor/administrator from either RHS and/or their comprehensive school site to inform them of the option to attend RHS. Included in the communication to students and parents will be such information as:

1. The difference in credits between the traditional and alternative diploma
2. Specifically which courses the student will need in order to graduate by completing a 180-unit alternate course of study
3. A student with this diploma is eligible to apply for acceptance into community college, military service or the workforce, but not a four-year university
4. A student who agrees to the 180 option is not eligible to participate in CIF sports
5. A student who agrees to the 180 option will relinquish his or her affiliation with the school of residence

**Ridgway Credit Policy**

The credit policy outlined below will be adhered to for a minimum of the 2024-2025 through the 2026-2027 school years. The instructional master schedule at Ridgway High School will consist of a minimum of seven periods available to students for a minimum of the 2024-2025 through the 2026-2027 school years to support consistency in the number of credits students can earn.

| **Student Grade** | **Credits Earned Per Quarter Per Class** |
| --- | --- |
| F | 0 credits earned |
| D | 2.5 credits earned |
| C or a B | 3.0 credits earned |
| A | 3.5 credits earned |

The following data points will be used for the 2024-2025 through the 2026-2027 school years by the staff and administration to track the effectiveness of the adopted credit policy:

1. Quarterly school wide GPA’s
2. Graduation rates
3. Dropout rates
4. Concurrent enrollment rates
5. Youth Truth climate and culture data for both students and staff
6. Number of students who choose to return to comprehensive sites from RHS and return to RHS
7. Credits earned by students designated as special education or english learners as compared to credits earned by general education students

**180-Unit Alternative Diploma - Required Classes for Graduation at the Continuation High School**

Three courses in social studies (30 credits): including United States history and World History ( including culture, and geography of the world). Additionally, two semester long courses, one course in American government (civics) and one course in Economics. (Education Code 51225.3)

Four courses in English (40 credits): English 1, English 2, English 3, English 4 or their equivalent. Newcomers English is accepted for one year (10 credits) of this requirement. (Education Code 51225.3)

Two courses in mathematics (20 credits): At least one Mathematics course shall meet or exceed state academic content standards for Integrated Mathematics I. The one additional year of Mathematics must exceed the content standards of Integrated Mathematics 1. (Education Code 51225.3)

Completion of Integrated Math 1 with a grade of ‘C’ or better prior to grade 9 shall satisfy the requirement and allow for placement in a Math 2 level course. High school credits will not be awarded. One additional mathematics course exceeding the content standards of Integrated Math 1 in grades 9-12 shall meet the requirement. (Education Code 51224.5)

Two courses in science (20 credits): Including biological and physical sciences (Education Code 51225.3)

One course in a Language Other Than English or Visual and Performing Arts or Career Technical Education. (10 credits) (Education Code 51225.3)

Two courses (20 credits) in physical education, unless the student has been otherwise exempted pursuant to other sections of the Education Code (Education Code 51225.3)

Electives (40 credits)

On a case-by-case basis, Site Principals (or designee) will work in collaboration with alternative school site staff and the departments of Teaching and Learning K-12 and the Office of Information Technology, if space is available at RHS, to make a recommendation for an alternative education placement for a student in a comprehensive high school, based on indicators from the second interim progress report of the prospective candidate's senior year. However, the intent is that no placements will be made after the end of the first semester of the senior year.

On a case-by-case basis, the Principal (or designee) of RHS may review the profile of a student in the fourth quarter of the students senior year to determine eligibility for a second year of senior class standing. The Principal (or designee) may submit a waiver (Exhibit 3) requesting that the student be allowed to complete the alternate course of study leading to the 180-Unit Alternative Diploma, subject to the approval of the Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning, K-12 and availability of program space.

**180 - Unit Alternative Diploma Waiver for Students with a Second Year of Senior Class Standing**

The Principal (or designee), in collaboration with the counselor of a student, may seek a waiver of the four year timeframe requirement specified in the alternate course of study set forth in Board Policy 6146.1 Graduation Requirements - Alternative Diploma and the corresponding administrative regulation. The waiver allows a student who did not successfully complete the requirements for graduation in a 4 year timeframe to graduate from high school with a second year of senior class standing and receive a 180- unit alternative diploma.

When submitting a waiver request to the principal, the counselor must certify that all other conditions aside from the four year timeframe have been satisfied. Principals submit waiver packets containing the Counselor's Request, Principal's Certification and accompanying documentation to the Office of the Assistant Superintendent, Teaching and Learning, K-12.

Counselors shall use the form presented in Administrative Regulation 6146.1 to request that the principal petition the Assistant Superintendent, Teaching and Learning, K-12 for a waiver to evaluate a student's progress in a second year of senior class standing, and to certify the alternative education student's ability to complete high school level coursework leading to the 180-Unit Alternative Diploma. See Exhibit 6146.1 for - COUNSELOR REQUEST FORM FOR 180-UNIT ALTERNATIVE DIPLOMA WAIVER FOR STUDENTS WITH A SECOND YEAR OF SENIOR CLASS STANDING.

Principals will use the form presented in Administrative Regulation 6146.1 to petition the Assistant Superintendent, Teaching and Learning, K-12 for a 180- Unit Alternative Diploma Waiver and to certify the alternative education student's high school level coursework completion. See Exhibit 6146.1 for - PRINCIPAL'S PETITION FOR WAIVER OF THE 4 YEAR TIMEFRAME FOR THE 180-UNIT ALTERNATIVE DIPLOMA.

District Tier 3 Team:

Any student who has not completed one hundred units at the end of his or her second year in high school shall be referred to the District Tier 3 Team for consideration of an alternative education setting or other such intervention strategy as appropriate to the student's identified needs.

The District Tier 3 Team shall operate as a district-wide Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) in which students will be matched with the program that provides the greatest opportunity for success. All educational options and settings will be considered for intervention placement. It is expected that parents/guardians and students will actively participate in the process.

The goal of this committee is to place students who have received multiple interventions in the most supportive setting in order for them to meet the graduation requirements and receive a diploma. This may result in students being directed to another school location for intervention and success.

Referrals to the District Tier 3 Team may be submitted by the student's primary site administrator as soon as it is determined that the interventions proposed in the student's second year in high school are not adequate for him or her to remain on-track for graduation. Referral may occur as early as the first quarter of the second year in high school or as needed at any time during that second year.

The District Tier 3 Team: may be comprised of but not limited to:

1. District Office Administrators representing relevant departments: Teaching & Learning and Student And Family Services
2. Alternative Education or Regular Education Administrator
3. High School Counselor
4. Alternative High School Counselor
5. Alternative Education Teacher
6. A credentialed teacher specific to the educational needs of the student (i.e., regular education, special education, English learner.)
7. Mental Health Clinician
8. Restorative Specialist
9. District Special Education Administrator
10. Probation Officer
11. School Resource Officer

Alternative educational settings and other intervention strategies shall be defined as:

1. Classroom Modifications and Interventions
2. Support classes within the regular program at a comprehensive high school
3. Continuation High School
4. PBIS and Tier 1 Strategies and Incentives
5. Smaller learning communities at school site
6. Independent Study
7. Online Computer Classes
8. Summer School
9. Academic After school programs
10. Saturday School
11. Mentors and/or tutors
12. Extending the school day

**English Language Arts**

Board Policy 6146.1-High School Graduation Requirements requires that students, as part of their core curriculum requirement, complete ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelfth grade English courses and demonstrate proficiency in meeting state-adopted standards.

Students must take college preparatory (P-designated) English courses to complete requirements for university entrance. College preparatory English courses are identified as meeting the UC credit subject area "b".

**Exemptions: Out-of-District Transfer and Intervention Students**

1. Transfer students in grades 9 or 10 will be required to complete established district graduation requirements, or their equivalent, as approved by a review of the student's transcript.
2. For transfer students in grades 11 or 12, or any student enrolled in intervention classes for two years or longer, the principal or designee will identify the district graduation requirements that cannot be fulfilled prior to the student's scheduled graduation date.

**Graduation and Certificate of Completion Requirements for Special Education Students**

1. Beginning with the class of 2006, special education students in grades 9-12 who have an active Individualized Education Plan (IEP) must complete all course and examination requirements for graduation as identified in Policy 6146.1.
2. Three years prior to the senior year, parents/guardians of special education students must receive written notice informing them of the graduation requirements for receiving a high school diploma and of the option of receiving a Certificate of Completion. The IEP team determines the appropriate course of studies.
  1. If a diploma is identified as the objective of the course of studies, the student must complete all required courses.
  2. If a Certificate of Completion is identified as the objective of the course of studies, the student must meet certificate requirements including consistent attendance, progress on IEP goals and objectives and appropriate behavior. Students must complete a course of study of 220 units, including coursework determined appropriate by the IEP team based on careful consideration of the student's disability.
3. A special education student who does not meet the course requirements for graduation will be subject to the same policies regarding graduation as all other district students.
4. A special education student who completes the requirements for the Certificate of Completion may participate in the graduation ceremony with their graduation class provided they have met all Certificate requirements.
5. The special education student who has not earned a diploma remains eligible for education services through the age of 21 or until a diploma is earned, whichever comes first.

**Graduation Credit for Concurrent Online Courses**

Under certain circumstances students may receive credit for graduation from concurrent online instruction through an accredited institution. Prior to registering for a concurrent online course, the student or his/her parent/guardian shall obtain verification from the principal or designee that the course is essentially equivalent to the high school curriculum and meets district graduation requirements. The number of semester credits assigned to the course shall be determined before the student begins coursework.

The district shall grant credit toward graduation for concurrent/online instruction if all of the following conditions are met: (Education Code 51740, 51741; CCR 1633)

1. The correspondence/concurrent/online course is provided by the University of California, or other university or accredited college in California, in subjects included within or related to the student's course of study. In addition, online courses considered UC eligible, are also acceptable. Proof of verification of accreditation is the responsibility of the parent/guardian(s).
2. Pre-approval from the principal or designee is needed for online credit. No retroactive credit will be granted.
3. All costs incurred for online courses not offered by SRCS will be the responsibility of the parent/guardian(s).

**Graduation Credit Transferred from Private Schools**

Credit will be accepted from students transferring from private schools as indicated:

1. All WASC-accredited or traditionally established parochial schools which have undergone a WASC-like evaluation.
2. Credit shall not be granted to students transferring from schools failing to comply with Education Code 33190 (Schools not registered with the State Department of Education).
3. For schools in compliance with Education Code 33190 but that do not fall in the category under number 1 above, credit will be established on the following basis:
  1. Transcripts for these schools must be evaluated by the principal/or administrative designee.
  2. Submission of the following written documents:
    1. Transcript
    2. Course descriptions including the number of hours per week and total for each course
  3. Credit may be granted based upon the following criteria:
    1. The course for which credit is granted shall have been taught by a credentialed teacher who majored or minored in that particular subject.
    2. A comparable course shall be available in the secondary public schools of this district.
    3. The length of time scheduled for the course shall be comparable to time spent in a course in the public schools, that is, at least 50 minutes per period.
    4. The total number of periods per semester shall be divided by 12 in order to ascertain the credits per course.
  4. Students who are requesting credit for courses which do not meet the above criteria of c(1) and c(3) shall not have those credits transferred.
  5. When possible, a personal contact with the previous school should be made.
  6. No course with grade F shall be accepted.
  7. Courses that are clearly of a religious or sectarian nature shall be counted as elective credit with regard to graduation requirements.

**Honorary Diploma for Visiting International Students**

Visiting international students will be granted an Honorary High School Diploma if the following criteria are met:

The student must:

1. Complete two semesters of residency in a Santa Rosa City Schools high school.
2. Have completed the equivalent of the 11th grade in the school system of the student's home country.
3. Successfully complete (no failing grades) the minimum following courses: English (2 semesters), U.S. History (2 semesters), American Government (1 semester), Senior elective (1 semester).
4. Successfully complete (no failing grades) all other coursework attempted
5. Attend a full day schedule
6. Maintain good attendance
7. Maintain good behavior, i.e., no disciplinary actions violations that would result in a suspendable or expellable offense.

**Issuance of a High School Diploma**

All graduation requirements must be completed in order to participate in the graduation ceremony.

As permitted by the principal, students who have met all other graduation requirements but need 30 or fewer credits to graduate may enroll in the last high school attended or the Independent Study Program for the first semester of the year following the graduation of their class. Those students who have earned all of their credits by the end of the year following the graduation of their class will receive a diploma from the last high school attended.

Students with deficiencies in excess of 30 credits at the end of their first year of senior class standing, who desire a high school diploma from the last high school attended, must be granted special approval by the site administrator to enroll in a second year, as per the Student Petition for a Second Year of Senior Class Standing. See Exhibit 6146.1 for - Student Petition for a Second Year of Senior Class Standing.

An alternative education student who has been granted special permission by the site administrator to enroll in a second year of senior class standing may, on a case-by -case basis, be recommended by the site for a waiver. The waiver, if approved, provides an exception to the four year timeframe requirement, as specified in the alternate course of study leading to the 180-Unit Alternative Diploma, and permits the student to earn this diploma in the 5th year of high school.

**Physical Education* Exemption For Interscholastic Athletics**

Board Policy 6146.1-High School Graduation Requirements requires that students, as part of their core curriculum, complete two year-long courses in Physical Education and demonstrate proficiency in meeting state-adopted standards. Ninth grade Physical Education must comprise one of the two years and ninth grade physical education is the mandatory first course a student must be enrolled in, and attempt to successfully complete for 10 credits, before students can gain further PE credits from other courses.

In lieu of attending one of the four required semesters of Physical Education for graduation, Santa Rosa City Schools offers students in grades 10-12 a one-semester Physical Education exemption for participating in an interscholastic sport. A total of two semesters or 10 credits of Physical Education may be waived.

Physical Education exemption based on participation in interscholastic athletics will be automatically awarded under the following conditions:

1. The student must:
  1. Have previously earned ten units of credit for ninth grade (or equivalent) physical education courses.
  2. Successfully complete a season of a sport at the varsity or junior varsity level in a CIF sanctioned interscholastic sport, to waive one semester or 5 credits of Physical Education. ​​​​​​​
2. A student must maintain, per Board policy, approved course enrollment requirements.
3. The student must have adhered to CIF and district eligibility rules.
4. If a student is unable to participate as an active player (fully participating in the sport itself) due to medical reasons for a cumulative period of 10 school days or less, that student may, with a doctor's approval, return to practice and still qualify.
5. If a student is removed from a sport at any time during the season of sport for disciplinary reasons, the student will no longer be eligible for the Physical Education exemption for one school year.
6. Athletic rosters will be submitted by the Athletic Director to the registrar at each site at the end of the season for an automatic waiver of one semester of Physical Education.
7. The waiver process will be monitored by the principal or her/his administrative designee at each site to ensure that all requirements of this Administrative Regulation have been met.
8. An equivalent class for which physical education credit would be granted (such as Dance) would also qualify as a Physical Education course with the exemption of Physical Education Ninth grade for the purpose of this Administrative Regulation.

**University a-g Requirements**

To satisfy the a-g subject requirements, students must complete the minimum 15 year-long high school courses listed below with a grade of ‘C' or better. At least seven of the fifteen year-long courses must be taken in the student's last two years of high school. The courses taken to fulfill the subject requirements must be certified by the University as meeting the requirement and must be included on the school's UC-certified course list.

1. History/Social Science - 2 years required Two years, including one year of World History, cultures, and historical geography and one year of U.S. History or one-half year of U.S. History and one-half year of Civics or American Government
2. English - 4 years required Four years of college preparatory English that includes frequent and regular writing, and reading of classic and modern literature. No more than one year of ELD-type courses can be used to meet this requirement.
3. Mathematics - 3 years required/4 years recommended Three years of college preparatory mathematics that includes the topics covered in elementary and advanced Algebra and two- and three-dimensional Geometry. Approved integrated math courses may be used to fulfill part or all of this requirement, as may math courses taken in the seventh and eighth grades that are accepted by the high school as equivalent to its own math courses.
4. Laboratory Science - 2 years required/3 years recommended Two years of laboratory science providing fundamental knowledge in at least two of these three disciplines: Biology, Chemistry, and Physics. Advanced laboratory science classes that have Biology, Chemistry or Physics as prerequisites and offer substantial additional material may be used to fulfill this requirement, as may the final two years of an approved three-year integrated science program that provides rigorous coverage of at least two of the three foundational subjects.
5. Language Other Than English - 2 years required/3 years recommended Two years of the same language other than English. Courses should emphasize speaking and understanding, and include instruction in grammar, vocabulary, reading, comprehension and culture. Courses in languages other than English taken in the seventh and eighth grades that are accepted by the high school as equivalent to its own courses may also be used.
6. Visual and Performing Arts - 1 year required A single, year-long approved arts course from a single VAPA discipline, including Dance, Drama/Theater, Music, or Visual Art
7. College Preparatory Elective - 1 year required

One year (two semesters) in addition to those required in 'a-f' above, chosen from the following areas: Visual and Performing Arts (non-introductory level courses), History, Social Science, English, Advanced Mathematics, Laboratory Science and Language Other Than English (a third year in the language used for the 'e' requirement or two years of another language) or courses that have been approved solely for use as ‘a - g' electives.

**Industry Concentration Certificate (Exhibit 6)**

An Industry Concentration Certificate is a path to a college and career future that integrates a-g courses, college courses, work based learning, and linked learning specialty areas. Completion of an Industry Concentration leads to meeting most of the a-g requirements, graduation from high school, and earns an Industry Concentration Certification in a key industry sector.

Students begin the Industry Concentration in grades 11 or 12. Students completing an Industry Concentration Certification will still meet the 220 credits graduation requirement; however, integrated with an industry sector concentration that may include CTE/VAPA courses. Students may participate in dual enrollment at a local college or university with approved agreements, mentorships, pre-internship, and pre-approved work based learning. Santa Rosa City Schools, 11th and 12th grade students may be identified to participate in an Industry Concentration at their school.

**Graduation with Industry Concentration**

The purpose of the graduation with an industry concentration is to support the Santa Rosa City Schools Mission to ensure “equitable access to a transformative educational experience grounded in the assets of our students, staff, and community. We nurture the whole student in an engaging, challenging, and safe environment.”

An industry concentration is defined as taking courses that fit under a California Department of Education (CDE) recognized industry sector (recognized with a cord at graduation). A student may meet the requirements of an industry concentration in three ways.

1. The student takes a series of 2 or 3 sequential courses that are aligned within a CDE recognized industry sector in a CTE designated pathway.
2. The student takes a series of 2 or 3 sequential courses that are aligned within a CDE recognized industry sector in a school site designated pathway.
3. The student takes, at minimum, 2 non-sequential courses that are aligned within the same CDE recognized industry sector AND completes a component of work readiness*.

At Spring of the 10th grade year, if a student declares an intent to follow an industry concentration and/or the counselor identifies the student who is on track to be an industry concentrator, the school site counselor will:

1. Meet with the student by the end of February.

- If the student pursues a graduation plan that retains UC/CSU eligibility, no further steps needed

2. Advise and complete the application for Graduation with an Industry Concentration Area. This meeting includes reviewing the student’s plan for graduation including post-secondary options.
  - If the graduation plan takes students off of UC/CSU eligibility, parent/guardian meetings must occur along with steps 3-4 below.
3. Records notes in the Student Information System (SIS).
4. Sends application to the Site MTSS Tier 2 Team for review.

Site MTSS Tier 2 Team and District Tier 3 Team actions:

1. Site MTSS Tier 2 Team will review and submit to the District MTSS Tier 3 Team.
2. District MTSS Tier 3 Team will review.
3. District MTSS Tier 3 Team will submit a list of the students and their Concentration Areas to the superintendent by April for an information item to the Board.

​​​**Selecting an Industry Concentration Area and the Application Process**

| Grade Level | Timeline | What | Who | Needs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 9th | August - November | Meeting to discuss high school options including a-g and industry concentration | School counselor with student, and parent/guardian | -4 year plan developed for every student and documented in SIS |
| 9th | April - May | Student group presentations to review graduation options | College Career Counselor (CCC) | -Document in SIS |
| 10th | January course selection sheet with industry concentration option provided to all students | Student who indicates interest in industry concentration to meet with counselor to discuss industry concentration and course selections by end of February | Counselor holds meeting with student and Parent/Guardian if course selection takes student off UC/CSU eligibility | -Include CCC <br> -Document SIS <br> -Application <br> -Schedule changed if needed <br> -A work readiness component will need to be discussed and set up if the student is electing to take non-sequential industry concentration courses. |
| 10th | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility |
| 10th | January to May | Site Approval of Application | Site MTSS Tier 2 Team Reviews | Completed Application with graduation plan |
| 10th | January to May | District Approval of Application | District Tier 3 Team Reviews | Completed Application with graduation plan and school site signatures |
| 10th | January to May | Board Information Item | Superintendent <br> Board of Education | List of Names and Graduation with a Concentration Area |
| 11th | January Course selection sheet with industry concentration option provided to all students <br> . | Student who indicates interest in industry concentration to meet with counselor to discuss industry concentration and course selections by end of February | Counselor holds meeting with student and Parent/Guardian if course selection takes student off UC/CSU eligibility | -Include CCC <br> -Document SIS <br> -Application <br> -Schedule changed if needed <br> -A work readiness component will need to be discussed and set up if the student is electing to take non-sequential industry concentration courses. |
| 11th | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility path | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility path | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility path | The following three steps are only for those students who are pursuing an industry concentration with a four year plan that takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility path |
| 11th | January to May | Site Approval of Application | Site MTSS Tier 2 Team | Completed Application with graduation plan |
| 11th | January to May | District Approval of Application | District Tier 3 Team | Completed Application with graduation plan and school site signatures |
| 11th | January to May | Board Information Item | Superintendent <br> Board of Education | List of Names and Graduation with a Concentration Area |

*Examples of Possible Work Readiness Activities

| Awareness and Exploration <br> Our College and Career Counselors work with students building awareness of careers and defining the role of postsecondary education in the 9th and 10th grade. | Preparation <br> In 11th grade students are encouraged to begin to apply learning through practical experience that develops knowledge and skills necessary for success in careers and postsecondary education. | Training <br> The last year of high school students continue to apply learning through constructive experiences that develop and train for employment and/or postsecondary education in a specific range of occupations. |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Learn ABOUT work. | Learn THROUGH work. | Learn FOR work. |
| • Career Interest Assessment <br> • Informational Interviews <br> • College and/or Career Fairs <br> • Workplace Tours/Field Trips <br> • Industry Panel Presentation <br> • Career interest inventory <br> • Job Readiness Skills workshops (resume writing, mock interviews, etc.) | • Job Readiness Skills workshops (resume writing, mock interviews, etc.) <br> • Business dress, behavior & etiquette training <br> • Networking activity <br> • Industry Panel Presentation <br> • Financial Aid Awareness | • Job Shadows <br> • Mock Interviews <br> • Work Experience <br> • Cooperative Vocational Training <br> • Internship – Paid/Unpaid <br> • Service Learning <br> • Dual enrollment <br> • Financial Aid Application Workshop |

**Language Other Than English Waiver (Exhibit 4)**

Board Policy 6146.1-High School Graduation Requirements requires that students, as part of their core curriculum requirement, complete two sequential world language courses unless the student's primary language is designated as other than English and they received instruction in their primary language after 6th grade. A student who does not successfully complete a level 2 Language Other Than English course is not eligible to transfer directly from high school to the University of California/California State University (UC/CSU) due to “a-g” admissions criteria. However, a student may still attend a junior/community college, other colleges outside the UC/CSU system, or other vocational institutions.

The Language Other Than English requirement may be met prior to high school. A first-year Language Other Than English course (or its equivalent) successfully completed prior to high school does not receive course credit. Completion of the second-year of a Language Other Than English course does fulfill the Language Other Than English graduation requirement.

Waivers to absolve a student from completing the graduation requirement will be limited and will be granted only if the principal approves a written request (Language Other Than English Course Exemption Form (Exhibit 4) for Students as submitted by a parent/guardian for the following reasons: The student has an Individual Education Plan (IEP) that indicates meeting the world language requirement would pose an undue burden to the student due to their specific learning disability and the goals stated in the IEP or unusual circumstances beyond the control of the student; or, if the student’s primary language is designated as other than English and they received instruction in their primary language after 6th grade.

**Exhibit 1**

Counselors shall use the form presented in Administrative Regulation 6146.1 to request that the principal petition the Assistant Superintendent, Teaching and Learning, K-12 for a waiver to evaluate a student's progress in a second year of senior class standing, and to certify the alternative education student's ability to complete high school level coursework leading to the 180-Unit Alternative Diploma.

**Counselor Request for 180-Unit Alternative Diploma Waiver for Students with a Second Year of Senior Class Standing**

Please return the completed form to the principal of your school.

My student, _______________________ [name], is a student in alternative education attending ____________________________High School. They are a student in good standing and have received the recommendation of the High School Administrative Selection Committee for consideration of this request.

I hereby petition that the principal submit a request to the Assistant Superintendent, Teaching and Learning, K-12 for a waiver of the board policy requirement to complete the 180-unit alternate course of study within four years. Approval of the waiver allows __________________ [name], to complete the requirements of the 180-Unit Alternative Diploma during the second year of senior class standing.

Parent/Guardian Signature:

Date:

**Exhibit 2**

Principals will use the form presented in Administrative Regulation 6146.1 to petition the Assistant Superintendent, Teaching and Learning, K-12 for a 180- Unit Alternative Diploma Waiver and to certify the alternative education student's high school level coursework completion.

**CONFIDENTIAL**

**Principal's Petition Form for Waiver of the 4-Year Timeframe for the 180-Unit Alternative Diploma**

Student Identification Number:

1. Describe the rationale of your Administrative Selection Committee in making the recommendation that this student be considered for a waiver of the 4- year timeframe in completing the alternate course of study for the 180- Unit Alternative Diploma.
2. Summarize the student's academic preparation and performance that demonstrates high school level achievement. This summary should indicate that the student is able to meet the requirements specified in the alternate course of study.
3. Describe the barriers and hardships of either a personal or academic nature that necessitated this student's second year of senior class standing.

I certify that the student is on track to complete the high school level coursework necessary to receive the 180- Unit Alternative Diploma.

Principal's Signature:

Date:

Attach to this cover sheet the following:

1. An attendance and discipline printout showing that the student is in good standing at his/her alternative education school; and
2. A certified transcript showing sufficient high school level coursework (either satisfactorily completed or in progress) in a high school level curriculum meeting the district established requirements to receive a 180- Unit Alternative Diploma; and

**Exhibit 3**

**STUDENT PETITION FOR A SECOND YEAR OF SENIOR CLASS STANDING**

Per AR 6146.1-High School Graduation Requirements

The following questions represent the conditions that must be met prior to approving a credit deficient student's petition for a second year of senior class standing:

CONDITION

Yes

No

- Will the student complete this second year of senior class standing prior to attaining the age of 20?
- Was the student enrolled in your school, at a minimum, for the 2nd semester of his/her first year of senior class standing?
- During the first year of senior class standing, did the student maintain a positive attendance rate of 90% or better?
- Did the student complete the first year of senior class standing with the attainment of a minimum of 160 credits?
- During the first year of senior class standing, did the student demonstrate acceptable behavior, with no offenses resulting in "out-of-school" suspension?

If the answer to all questions is "Yes," the student's petition for a second year of senior class standing may be approved by the principal of the student's last school of attendance.

**Exhibit 4**

LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH COURSE EXEMPTION FORM

FOR STUDENTS WITH IEPs OR STUDENTS WHOSE PRIMARY LANGUAGE IS DESIGNATED OTHER THAN ENGLISH

Student ID Number:_______________________ Date:______________________

Student Name: ___________________________ School:_____________________

Parent/Guardian Name:_______________________________________________________

Address: __________________________________________________________________

Home/Cell Phone: ___________________ Work Phone:________________

Expected year of high school graduation:____________________

I request a waiver for my child from the 20 unit Language Other Than English requirement for the reason indicated below:

_____ My child’s Individual Education Plan (IEP) indicates that the Language Other Than English requirement would pose an undue burden based on their specific learning disability and the goals stated in the IEP.

_____ My child’s primary language is designated other than English and they are exempt from the core graduation requirement of two years of a Language Other than English course, because their formal instruction in the Language Other Than English took place after the 6th grade.

I declare that the above information is true and is the basis for this claim of exemption from the Language Other Than English requirement for my child. I understand that this means my student is not eligible to transfer directly from high school to the University of California/California State University (UC/CSU) due to “a-g” admissions criteria. However, my student may still attend a junior/community college, other colleges outside the UC/CSU system, or other vocational institutions.

Parent/Guardian Signature: __________________________ Date: _______________

Special Education Case Manager: ____________________ Date: _______________

Counselor's Approval: _____________________________ Date: _______________

Principal's Approval: ______________________________ Date: _______________

**Exhibit 5**

**Alternative Education High School Graduation Requirement Request for Waiver**

I petition that my student (print name),_______________________________________, at _______________________(name of school), be allowed to graduate with two years of math and/or less than two years of LOTE. I understand that this means my student is not eligible to transfer directly from high school to the University of California/California State University (UC/CSU) due to “a-g” admissions criteria. However, my student may still attend a junior/community college, other colleges outside the UC/CSU system, or other vocational institutions.

Course of Study to be waived (check only one box for LOTE):

- Math

- 1 year of Language other than English (check only the LOTE that applies)
- 2 years of Language other than English (check only the LOTE that applies)

____________________________________________________________________

Parent/Guardian Signature Date

____________________________________________________________________

Student Signature Student ID # Date

By signing, the alternative education school counselor is acknowledging having met with the parent and student in person and presenting information regarding SRCS graduation requirements, this waiver, and all of its implications.

Counselor Signature: __________________________________ Date:_____________

Principal (or designee): _________________________________ Date:_____________

**Exhibit 6**

**Graduation Industry Concentration Application**

This Graduation Concentration Application is intended for rising 11th and 12th graders who would like to meet an industry concentration.

_________________________________________________________________________

Student Name/Student ID #

An **industry** concentration is defined as taking courses that fit under a California Department of Education (CDE) recognized industry sector. A student may meet the requirements of an industry concentration in three ways.

1. The student takes a series of 2 or 3 sequential courses that are aligned within a CDE recognized industry sector in a CTE designated pathway.
2. The student takes a series of 2 or 3 sequential courses that are aligned within a CDE recognized industry sector in a school site designated pathway.
3. The student takes, at minimum, 2 non-sequential courses that are aligned within the same CDE recognized industry sector AND completes a component of work readiness.

| **Part 1. Industry Concentration (List the concentration below):** <br> __________________________________________________________ |
| --- |

| **Part 2. List Course Selections that Lead to Industry Concentration:** <br> **__________________________________** <br> **__________________________________** <br> **__________________________________ (optional)** |
| --- |

| **Part 3: List courses taken that meet graduation requirements but take students off the UC/CSU eligibility.** <br> **______________________________ (Math Course other than Math 3 or above)** <br> **______________________________ (Language Other Than English if 2nd year is non-sequential in same language)** |
| --- |

**District personnel should follow each step of the process below. As each step is completed, the appropriately named party should check off that step of the process to ensure it is complete.**

| Counselor meets with the student by the end of February of the student’s sophomore and junior year. <br> Student and counselor discuss course selection for the following year. This meeting includes creating a plan for graduation, including post-secondary options. To be discussed are: <br> An “a - g” course plan to meet the industry concentration <br> If the student pursues a graduation plan that retains UC/CSU eligibility, **no further steps needed** <br> A plan that may include alternate courses to the graduation requirements that take the student off the UC/CSU eligibility track. For example, instead of Math 3, the student may select Math with Financial Implications, and/or instead of two years of sequential LOTE, a student may elect a year of two different languages <br> *If the graduation plan with industry concentration takes the student off of UC/CSU eligibility, parent/guardian meeting must occur and the following steps taken as well* |
| --- |

| Counselor sends the signed documents to the school-site MTSS Tier 2 team leader for the Tier 2 team to review <br> After review, the Site MTSS Tier 2 Team will submit it to the District MTSS Tier 3 Team <br> Upon review by the District MTSS Tier 3 Team,the District Tier 3 Team will submit a list of the students and their Concentration Areas to the superintendent by April for an information item to the Board |
| --- |

**Graduation Industry Concentration Application**

I petition that ___________________________________________________________________

(student name and SID #)

at ___________________________________________________________________________

(name of high school)

be granted the option to meet the third year of math and/or Language other than English that will not meet the UC/CSU admissions requirements.

I have been informed of the requirements of completing the “a-g” course of study and being UC/CSU eligible. I have been informed of the requirements and benefits of an industry concentration and the benefits of being UC/CSU eligible. I understand that taking the action below means my student will not be eligible to attend a UC/CSU school directly after high school; however, he/she may still attend a junior college, other four year university institutions, or other vocational institutions.

Courses in the industry concentration that DO NOT meet “a-g” requirements for UC or CSU eligibility.

- Math with Financial Applications
- Statistical Reasoning in Sports
- Non-sequential LOTE

____________________________________________________________________

Parent/Guardian Signature Date

____________________________________________________________________

Student Signature Student ID # Date

By signing, the counselor is acknowledging having met with the parent and student in person and presenting information regarding SRCS graduation requirements, this option for graduation, and all of its implications.

Counselor Signature: ____________________________________________________ Date:________

Site MTSS Tier 2 Team Review: ___________________________________________ Date:________

Tier 2 Team Leader Signature

District MTSS Tier 3 Team Review: ________________________________________ Date:________

Tier 3 Team Leader Signature
