---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.2-E PDF(2)"
title: "Certificate Of Proficiency/High School Equivalency"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "01/27/2021"
date_last_reviewed: "01/27/2021"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=dbIZSwocKmh3eQUQ9VbOHQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Santa Rosa City Schools
Exhibit
Certificate of Proficiency/High School Equivalency
E 6146.2
Instruction
NOTICE AND CONSENT TO DISCONTINUE SCHOOL ATTENDANCE
FOR STUDENTS WITH A CERTIFICATE OF PROFICIENCY
Notice of Student Rights: Students who pass the California High School Proficiency
Examination (CHSPE) and receive a Certificate of Proficiency issued by the State Board of
Education may continue to attend school, but upon request will be exempted from compulsory
school attendance pursuant to Education Code 48410. If the student is under 18 years of age,
the student's parent/guardian must also provide approval in order for the student to discontinue
school attendance.
If the student leaves school after receiving a Certificate of Proficiency and is under 18 years of
age, the student may later decide to re-enroll in the district with no adverse consequences. In this
case, the student may be required to meet new or additional requirements established since the
student was previously enrolled. If the stud ent re-enrolls and then leaves school again, the
student may be denied re-admittance until the beginning of the following semester.
For further information about leaving school after obtaining the Certificate of Proficiency,
contact the principal or school guidance counselor.
Student's name: __________________________________________________________
School: ________________________________________________________________
Date on which the Certificate of Proficiency was issued: _________________________
To be completed by student: I understand the rights granted to students who are awarded the
Certificate of Proficiency to disenroll from school, and to re-enroll if desired before the age of
18. I hereby notify the school district of my intent to disenr oll from school.
Student's signature: ______________________________________ Date: ______________
To be completed by parent/guardian: I hereby grant consent for my minor child to disenroll
from school.
Parent/guardian's name (please print): _________________________________________
Signature: ______________________________________________ Date: _____________

To be completed by school administrator: I hereby verify the parent/guardian's signature and
date recorded above.
Name of school administrator (please print): ____________________________________
Position: __________________________________________________________________
Signature: ______________________________________________ Date: _____________
Exhibit : SANTA ROSA CITY SCHOOLS
approved: May 24, 2017 Santa Rosa, California
revised: January 27, 2021
