---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6146.4"
title: "Differential Graduation And Competency Standards For Students With Disabilities"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/25/2018"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=GEsZC5XoIr1p6bwtOj44ew%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that students with disabilities are entitled to a course of study that provides them with a free appropriate public education (FAPE) and that modifications to the district's regular course may be needed on an individualized basis to provide FAPE. In accordance with law, each student's individualized education program (IEP) team shall determine the appropriate goals, as well as any appropriate individual accommodations necessary for measuring the academic achievement and functional performance of the student on state and districtwide assessments.

(cf. 6159 - Individualized Education Program)

(cf. 6159.1 - Procedural Safeguards and Complaints for Special Education)

(cf. 6162.51 - State Academic Achievement Tests)

(cf. 6162.52 - High School Exit Examination)

(cf. 6164.4 - Identification and Evaluation of Individuals for Special Education)

Alternative Course of Study

Because the prescribed course of study may not accommodate the needs of some students, the Board shall provide alternative means fir the completion of prescribed courses in accordance with law. The Individualized Education Program Team can determine that an alternative course of study may be available in accordance with AR 6146.4m that course if study may include alternative courses leading to a diploma.

Certificate of Educational Achievement or Completion

Instead of a high school diploma, a student with disabilities may be awarded a certificate or document of educational achievement or completion if the student has met one of the following requirements: (Education Code 56390)

1. Satisfactorily completed a prescribed alternative course of study approved by the board of the district in which the student attended school or the district with jurisdiction over the student as identified in his/her IEP

2. Satisfactorily met his/her IEP goals and objectives during high school as determined by the IEP team

3. Satisfactorily attended high school, participated in the instruction as prescribed in his/her IEP, and met the objectives of the statement of transition services

(cf. 6146.1 - High School Graduation Requirements)

A student with disabilities who meets any of the criteria specified above shall be eligible to participate in any graduation ceremony and any school activity related to graduation in which a graduating student of similar age without disabilities would be eligible to participate. (Education Code 56391)

(cf. 5127 - Graduation Ceremonies and Activities)
