---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6152.1"
title: "Placement In Mathematics Courses"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=jB2ZLbzNbplusR7qbw2JHHslshag%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education believes that a sound educational program must include the study of subjects that prepare students for admission to higher education and/or a fulfilling career. To the extent possible, district students shall be provided an opportunity to complete a sequence of mathematics courses recommended for admission into the University of California and California State University systems.

The Superintendent or designee shall work with district teachers, counselors, and administrators and the representatives of feeder schools to develop consistent protocols for placing students in mathematics courses offered at district high schools. Such placement protocols shall systematically take into consideration multiple objective academic measures that may include, but are not limited to, interim and summative assessments, placement tests that are aligned to state-adopted content standards in mathematics, classroom assignment and grades, and report cards.

Students shall be enrolled in mathematics courses based on the placement protocols. No student shall repeat a mathematics course which he/she has successfully completed based on the district's placement protocols.

When a student does not qualify to be enrolled in a higher level mathematics course based on a consideration of the objective measures specified in the placement protocols, he/she may nevertheless be admitted to the course based on the recommendation of a teacher or counselor who has personal knowledge of the student's academic ability.

The placement protocols shall specify a time within the first month of the school year when students shall be reevaluated to ensure that they are appropriately placed in mathematics courses and shall specify the criteria the district will use to make this determination. Any student found to be misplaced shall be promptly placed in the appropriate mathematics course.

Within 10 school days of an initial placement decision or a placement decision upon reevaluation, a student and his/her parent/guardian who disagree with the placement of the student may appeal the decision to the Superintendent or designee. The Superintendent or designee shall decide whether or not to overrule the placement determination within 10 school days of receiving the appeal. The decision of the Superintendent or designee shall be final.

District staff shall implement the placement protocols uniformly and without regard to students' race, sex, gender, nationality, ethnicity, socioeconomic background, or other subjective or discriminatory consideration in making placement decisions.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that all teachers, counselors, and other district staff responsible for determining students' placement in mathematics courses receive training on the placement protocols.

Prior to the beginning of each school year, the Superintendent or designee shall communicate the district's commitment to providing students with the opportunity to complete mathematics courses recommended for college admission, including approved placement protocols and the appeal process, to parents/guardians, students, teachers, school counselors, and administrators.

This policy and the district's mathematics placement protocols shall be posted on the district's web site. (Education Code 51224.7)

Annually, the Board and the Superintendent or designee shall review student data related to placement and advancement in the mathematics courses offered at district high schools to ensure that students who are qualified to progress in mathematics courses based on their performance on objective academic measures are not held back in a disproportionate manner on the basis of their race, ethnicity, gender, or socioeconomic background. The Board and Superintendent shall also consider appropriate recommendations for removing any identified barriers to students' access to mathematics courses.
