---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6153.11"
title: "^School Sponsored Extended Field Trips"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=pluskNGtCt3ypI7tzGBHAEABA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Extended field trips may be an important component of the instructional program. In order for an extended field trip to be considered a school- sponsored trip by the district, certain educational specifications must be met.

Average Daily Attendance (ADA) shall be credited only while a student is "engaged in educational activities required of such students and under the immediate supervision and control of a certificated employee" (Education Code 46300). Under certain circumstances a school-sponsored extended field trip may occur outside of the school day or school year.

Recognized school or school club trips will be considered school-sponsored if students are under the direct supervision of a school employee.

Private trips that do not include all students in a grade level, class, group or club may not be considered school-sponsored. See Board Policy 6153.2.

No field trips may be made to locations, activities, or programs where students will be treated unfairly based on disability, gender, sexual preference, race, or other characteristics which may identify them as part of a protected class. (Education Code 220)

The superintendent or designee shall annually report to the Board of Education the number of out-of-state and out-of-country extended field trips including fees paid per student.

**School -Sponsored Extended Field Trip Approval**

Overnight trips must be planned at least 50 days in advance and be approved by the principal, and the appropriate superintendent. Any exceptions must be approved by the superintendent or designee.

All extended field trips must be planned in advance and approved according to the policy and regulation outlined in 6153.1

**Educational**

1. The trip should have an overriding educational objective and be a direct outgrowth of the classroom curriculum of the particular group.
2. The need for the educational experience should lead to the trip and not vice versa; i.e., the trip should not be primarily for recreational purposes. (The longer the trip, the greater the need to qualify.)
3. No equivalent educational opportunity is available closer to Santa Rosa.
4. No grade or extra credit will be given to student for participation.
5. When there is flexibility in the selection of dates for school-sponsored extended field trips that require students to be absent from classes, such trips should be scheduled far enough apart so as not to be disruptive to the educational process for the student or teacher.
6. The field trip or excursion is voluntary on the part of the student.
7. Neither the student's attendance nor participation is required by the district.

**Students**

Only district students may participate in school-sponsored extended field trips.

Students on school-sponsored extended field trips shall be expected to act in a responsible manner at all times and follow all school rules on field trips.

A student planning to participate in a field trip must obtain signed clearance from all of the teachers whose classes will be missed. A teacher may refuse permission if the student is having academic, attendance, or behavioral problems in class. Students whose presence on a field trip would pose a safety risk or disciplinary problem shall be excluded. In such cases the principal's decision will be final.

Appropriate educational experiences and proper supervision shall be provided for any student who does not participate in field trips.

**Parents/Guardians**

Written approval of a student's parent/guardian is required for participation in any extended field trip. Annual parent/guardian permission slips may not be used for extended field trips.

Parents/guardians shall receive complete written information about each field trip. This should include:

1. Date
2. Itinerary
3. Means of transportation
4. Costs (per Education Code 35220 and 5CCR 350 and 405), no student shall be charged for participating in a school-sponsored day field trip. Costs must be covered by fundraising, donation, parent associations, or booster clubs. Public school funds shall not be used for student expenses related to out-of-state or out-of country travel.
5. Purpose
6. Conduct expectations
7. Medical release
8. Emergency number where the group can be reached; and other pertinent information.

**Overnight Trips**

The ratio of students to adults (21 or older) shall not exceed 9 students per adult for overnight trips. However, consideration should be given to the age and grade level of the students when not following the suggested ratio.

Volunteers/chaperones who accompany students on overnight field trips must obtain a fingerprint clearance.

If a motel or similar accommodation is used, all rooms should be together whenever possible, with chaperones' rooms intermixed with students' rooms.

Overnight trips involve greater responsibility on everyone's part:

1. Parents/guardians should impress upon their students the necessity to act responsibly, obey school rules, and follow supervisors' instructions.
2. Chaperones shall do their best to monitor the location and behavior of students.

All persons on any out-of-state or other overnight field trip shall provide written proof of medical insurance.

**Transportation**

Field trips requiring school bus transportation shall not interfere with the regularly scheduled transportation of students to and from school. Home-to-school transportation shall take priority over field trips both as to availability of buses and as to times available.

Student transportation may be provided by regular school bus, private bus licensed to carry students, public carrier (plane, train, boat, etc.), district vehicles or private car.

1. Transportation by bus shall be in accord with Board Policy and Administrative Regulation 3545.4 and 3545.5.
2. Transportation by auto shall be in accord with Board Policy and Administrative Regulation 3545.8.

The transportation of students by private automobiles for approved field trips and activities shall be authorized only when the vehicle is driven by an adult who is cleared for such purposes using the form in Administrative Regulation 3545.8(a). Drivers shall be required to possess a valid California driver's license, maintain a good driving record, and maintain sufficient liability and accident coverage which meets or exceeds district requirements.

When privately owned and operated vehicles are used, the owner of the vehicle has primary liability for his/her passengers. If the driver is a volunteer, no excess coverage is provided by the district.

**Fees, Charges and Fundraising**

No student shall pay any charge for necessary supplies (Education Code 400 11) nor pay to the district a fee for transportation or an admission fee in connection with an educational field trip (5CCR 350 and 405) taken during the school day or during the school year. Use of a facility (or bus), by non-students, for recreational purposes is subject to fees prescribed by the Board (Education Code 10912).

No student of an identifiable group shall be prevented from taking a field trip due to lack of funds and no groups shall be authorized to take an extended field trip if a student member will be excluded due to lack of funds (Education Code 35220).

No admission charge required as part of an educational field trip activity taken during the school day may be paid by a student. The district shall pay for admission and other necessary expenses of instruction. Community services groups (such as PTA, PFO, etc.) may provide funds for such purposes; however, no public school funds shall be used for student out-of-state extended trip expenses.

The district shall not pay for meals or lodging (motel or hotel room) for a student on any field trip (Education Code 35330). However, the district is authorized to pay for a school lunch (and breakfast when such program is established) for any locally designated needy child (Education Code 49500). School lunches during the trip may be reported just as for those at school and are subject to the regular federal and state reimbursement rates.

All students involved in the activity will be given an opportunity to participate in fund-raising. Each student must have an opportunity to raise sufficient funds to completely subsidize the trip or be funded by a school organization. (Education Code 35330) Fund-raising will not be conducted during class time and will not normally be through door-to-door sales. Major fund-raising activities would be the responsibility of parent organizations and booster clubs.

All fund-raising activities will be approved by the appropriate administrator in advance (no later than the time the field trip is requested).

**Staff**

The district teachers or other district certificated personnel assigned by the district to accompany students on extended field trips shall assume responsibility for the proper conduct of students.

A school administrator or other knowledgeable staff member shall instruct parents/guardians and teacher chaperones as to their specific responsibilities.

The ratio of students to adults (21 or older) shall not normally exceed 9 students per adult for overnight trips. Exceptions may be made by the Associate Superintendent of Business.

Chaperones will be selected for accommodating gender/privacy rights of students.

Should fund-raising cover the cost of the teacher-related expenses for the extended field trip, the district will make the decision on which staff member/s is/are the most suited to fulfill the instructional objectives of the trip and accompany the group. Extended school-sponsored trips that occur during the school day and school year are not subject to 1090 violations as the teacher is carrying out his/her regular job responsibilities during the trip. While fundraising is strongly encouraged, school funds may be used for the field trip expenses of instructors, advisors or chaperones.

Trips Which Include Water Activities, Activities Near Water or Dangerous Activities

No swimming or wading shall be allowed unless involving sanctioned competitions or instructional activities.

Please refer to Administrative Regulation 6153 for Dangerous Activity guidelines.

**Waiver**

In accordance with Education Code 35330, "All persons taking the field trip or excursion shall be deemed to have waived all claims against the district or the state of California for injury, accident, illness, or death occurring during or by reason of the field trip or excursion."

For out-of-state or overnight field trips, completed hold-harmless statements based on the above wording and signed by the parent or legal guardian shall be on file for every adult and all students involved.
