---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6153.22"
title: "^Non-District Travel Study Programs"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "01/14/2009"
date_last_reviewed: "01/14/2009"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=bfRozs4WM8ORKOslshaiXHW8w%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The district recognizes the value of education and study/travel programs. The district staff, acting outside the course and scope of their district duties, may wish to sponsor such experiences for students. If such an activity is proposed, the sponsoring individuals must meet the following conditions in order to disseminate program information:

1. Adult students and the parents of all students under age 18 must sign a statement as follows: "It has been explained to me and I understand that the study-tour program being organized by (fill in name of staff member/s) is not a Santa Rosa City Schools' sponsored program or activity. I further understand that the district assumes no responsibility or liability for any person, part, activity, or anything that may occur or be associated with the participation in the program. Furthermore, I accept and understand that district staff that participates in such a program is operating outside of the course and scope of his/her employment. As such, the district's workers compensation or liability programs do not cover these participating staff, nor does the district convey any authority to discipline or monitor student behavior.
2. No pressure, direct, implied or inferred shall be utilized with any person to encourage or influence participation in the program.
3. No employee who organizes or chaperones such travel programs shall utilize time during the school day to publicize or otherwise engage in activities related to the program. In addition, no such employees may utilize student records, such as home address or telephone numbers.
4. All such travel programs shall begin and end during non-instructional time.
5. All employees of the district must avoid conflict of interests, which are prohibited in Government Code Sections 1070, 1090, or 87100.
6. Information may be made available to staff, students and parents in the following manner:
  1. Notices may be placed on appropriate bulletin boards with inclusion of information that this is a non-district sponsored activity.
  2. No promotion of any program shall be made in the classroom during school time.
  3. Non-school time meetings may be held with students and parents under the provisions of the Civic Center Act. The sponsor shall complete a facility use agreement and provide a certificate of insurance.
  4. All news releases and other notices shall specify that the program is not district sponsored.
  5. Fund raising activities shall not take place on school campuses.
  6. The organizer or chaperone shall use no list of potential students and their names, and the lists are not available to the company for which they work.
