---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6153.11"
title: "^School Sponsored Extended Field Trips"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "05/24/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "05/24/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=QTHTn885kkYrv8IyyqG3kQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

School-sponsored extended field trips must be made with the approval of the Assistant Superintendent for Curriculum and Instruction, Elementary or Secondary.

(Note: Refer to section Dangerous Activities On and Off Campus in Administrative Regulation 6153 to determine if the activity you are planning is categorized as dangerous. If it is, please consult the Business Office, 528-5381, for special approval from the Associate Superintendent of Business Services.)

1. At least 50 working days in advance of the desired date, the teacher shall discuss any proposed extended field trip with the principal and obtain tentative approval. Extended (overnight) field trip, Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction K-6 or 7-12 approval (Policy 6153 and 6153.1) (submit 50 days in advance). Dangerous Activity: Does this trip involve a dangerous activity, as defined in Administrative Regulation 6153?

- If yes, the Associate Superintendent of Business Services approval is required in addition to the preceding approvals. Date submitted: Date(s) of proposed trip: Name of sponsoring group: Destination: Reason for trip: Will a substitute(s) be necessary? If so, how will this be financed? If you are not calling a substitute, how will your classes be covered? Sub approval number: Leaving site at: Arrival time at event/location: Departure time from event/location: Arrival time home: (Please attach a trip itinerary) Method of transportation: Permission slips: Number of students: Chaperones: Approved Signatures: 1-3, All Field Trips (Do not need to send to Assistant Superintendent); More than 100 miles or overnight;
  - Involves a Dangerous Activity as defined in Administrative Regulation 6153 Signatures with dates required from: Sponsor, vice-principal, principal, Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction K-6 or 7-12 and for a dangerous activity: Associate Superintendent/Business Swimming: No swimming or wading shall be allowed unless involving instructional or sanctioned competition. What are the educational benefits of the proposed trip? Is there an equivalent opportunity available closer to Santa Rosa? It is understood that no grade or extra credit will be given for participation or non-participation. Will there be a loss of class time? If so, how much: Is there any other loss of class time of this group within three weeks of this proposed trip (before or after)? If yes, please explain: When was the last extended field trip taken if this is a performing group or team? To what location? What is the approximate cost per student? How is the cost funded? If fund-raising is necessary, have the activities been approved? (If not, a request for fund-raising should accompany this request.) If funds must be raised, will each student have a reasonable opportunity to raise sufficient funds to subsidize the trip? If no, please explain: Field trip request form is available at www.srcs.k12.ca.us/fieldtrips

2. At least 50 days in advance of the desired date, the teacher shall submit the field trip request form including names and contact numbers of all chaperones with the principal's signature to the appropriate assistant superintendent.
3. Discuss plans with responsible persons at the place to be visited and confirm arrangements such as arrival and departure times, directions for loading and unloading students, facilities for parking the bus and any fees charged.
4. Make arrangements for group transportation (including airline, train and/or bus reservations).
5. Send out permission forms to parents/guardians.
6. Arrange for adequate adult supervision (student to adult ratio is 9:1).
7. Prior to the trip, discuss with students what learning outcomes are desired from the trip. Brief the class on safety regulations, proper behavior, following safety and security rules.
8. As soon as possible after the trip, conduct a discussion with students on what was observed on the trip in order to reinforce learning.

**Other Transportation**

Bus transportation is preferred, but privately-owned vehicles may be used for field trips. These guidelines shall be followed:

1. A driver information form shall be filled out on each driver and auto. [Administrative Regulation 3545.8(a)]
2. If the vehicle does not meet safety expectations, it cannot be used to transport students.
3. The driver and all passengers must have operational seat belts which must be worn during the trip.
4. The driver shall be briefed by the responsible certificated staff member beforehand on the route, permissible speeds, and driving conditions.
5. Each vehicle owner/driver must provide proof of insurance coverage: Liability $100,000/$300,000 Property damage and uninsured motorists $50,000 And medical payment of not less than $5,000 Parents/guardians can obtain a one-day rider from their insurance provider for these purposes. Uninsured or underinsured motorists are not permitted to drive on field trips.
6. Per Administrative Regulation 3545.8(a), the number of passengers, including the driver, shall not exceed the passenger capacity of the vehicle and must not in any case exceed ten (10).
7. If time permits, DMV records for volunteer drivers should be requested and reviewed.
