---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6161.11"
title: "Supplementary Instructional Materials"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=ThXjdWtP8bybMOaw605lVg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education encourages the use of supplementary instructional materials to enrich the curriculum and enhance student learning. Such materials shall be aligned with district goals, curriculum objectives, and academic standards and shall supplement and not supplant the use of Board-adopted basic instructional materials that serve as the primary learning resources.

Supplementary instructional materials include, but are not limited to, instructional materials that are designed to serve one or more of the following purposes: (Education Code 60010)

1. To provide more complete coverage of one or more subjects included in a given course
2. To meet the various learning ability levels of students in a given age group or grade level
3. To meet the diverse educational needs of students with a language disability in a given age group or grade level
4. To meet the diverse educational needs of students reflective of a condition of cultural pluralism
5. To use current, relevant technology that further engages interactive learning in the classroom and beyond

Supplementary instructional materials may be selected by the Superintendent or designee, school administrators, or teachers, as applicable, and obtained through donations to the district and/or available funding sources designated for these purposes.

As appropriate, supplementary instructional materials shall meet the criteria developed for the selection and evaluation of basic instructional materials as described in AR 6161.1 - Selection and Evaluation of Instructional Materials. Supplementary instructional materials shall be directly related to the course of study in which they are being used and shall be appropriate for the age and maturity level of the students.

The use or reproduction of supplementary instructional materials shall be in accordance with federal copyright law.

**Supplementary Materials Aligned with Common Core Standards**

To prepare district students to achieve the Common Core Standards in English language arts and mathematics and the English language development standards, as applicable, the Board may select supplementary instructional materials from the lists of materials determined by the State Board of Education (SBE) to be aligned with those standards. (Education Code 60605.86-60605.88)

The Board may approve supplementary instructional materials that are not on the lists approved by the SBE but which are aligned with the Common Core Standards provided that the materials comply with the evaluation criteria established by the SBE and Education Code 60050, 60060-60062, and 60226. The Board shall select content review experts who possess the qualifications specified in law to review and recommend such supplementary materials. The majority of the content review experts shall be teachers who are credentialed and/or authorized in the subject area they are reviewing and the remainder shall include appropriate persons from postsecondary educational institutions, school and district curriculum administrators, and other persons who are knowledgeable in the subject area. (Education Code 60605.86-60605.88)

**Appropriateness of Materials**

Whenever a district employee proposes to use a supplementary resource which is not included in the approved learning resources of the district, he/she shall preview the material to determine whether, in his/her professional judgment, it is appropriate for the grade level taught and is consistent with district criteria for the selection of supplementary instructional materials.

The employee shall confer with the Superintendent or designee as necessary to determine the compliance of the material with district criteria. The primary considerations should be the educational value, appropriateness, and relevance of the materials as well as the ages and maturity of the students.
