---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6161.2"
title: "Damaged Or Lost Instructional Materials"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=R4kghgQEswggTYZBWIY3wg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that instructional materials are an expensive resource and that each student is entitled to sufficient instructional materials in accordance with law. Instructional materials provided for use by students remain the property of the district. Students are responsible for returning borrowed materials in good condition, with no more wear and tear than usually results from normal use.

When materials are lost or so damaged that they are no longer usable, the student shall be immediately issued a replacement material. However, students or parents/guardians shall be responsible for reparation equal to the current replacement cost of the materials. When materials are damaged but still usable, the Superintendent or designee shall determine an appropriate charge.

If it can be demonstrated to the Superintendent or designee's satisfaction that the student has taken all reasonable precautions to safeguard instructional materials issued to him/her, the Superintendent or designee may excuse the student or parent/guardian from payment of reparation.

If reparation is not excused and not paid by the student or parent/guardian, the district may withhold the student's grades, diploma and transcripts in accordance with law, Board policy, and administrative regulation.
