---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6162.5"
title: "Student Assessment"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "10/22/2025"
date_last_reviewed: "10/22/2025"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=qyhplusXKkQWo4u4mh9pvbvkA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that student assessments are an important instructional and accountability tool. To obtain the most accurate evaluation of student performance, the district shall use a variety of measures, including district, state, and/or national assessments.

Assessment data shall be used to help determine individual students' progress, mastery of academic standards, appropriate placement in district programs, and/or eligibility for graduation. In addition, summary data on student assessment results shall be used by the district to identify and review student achievement goals in the district's local control and accountability plan, evaluate district educational programs in order to identify needed improvements, and, as appropriate, evaluate staff performance.

In selecting or developing any district assessment, the Superintendent or designee shall examine evidence of its reliability, its validity for the intended purpose and for various student populations, and the extent to which it aligns with the material that is being taught.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that assessments are administered in accordance with law and test publisher's directions, and that test administration procedures are fair and equitable for all students.

As appropriate, assessment results shall be disaggregated by student subgroup, classroom, grade level, and/or school site to allow for critical analysis of student needs.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide professional development as needed to assist administrators and teachers in interpreting and using assessment data to improve student performance and the instructional program.

When districtwide and school-level results of student assessments are published by the state, the Superintendent or designee may provide supplementary information to assist parents/guardians and the community in understanding test results.

Interim and Formative Assessments

State interim and formative assessments may be used in combination with other sources of information to gain timely feedback about student progress in an effort to continually adjust instruction to improve learning. Results from interim and formative assessments shall not be used for any high-stakes purpose, including, but not limited to, teacher or other school staff evaluation, accountability, student grade promotion or retention, graduation, course or class placement, identification for gifted or talented education, reclassification of English learners, or identification as an individual with exceptional needs. (Education Code 60642.6, 60642.7)

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that teachers who administer interim and formative assessments have access to all functions and information designed for teacher use related to such assessments and student performance on the assessments. (Education Code 60642.6)

Individual Record of Accomplishment

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that each student, by the end of grade 12, has an individual record of accomplishment that includes the following: (Education Code 60607)

1. The results of the state achievement tests required and administered as part of the California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress, or any predecessor assessments, pursuant to Education Code 60640-60649
2. The results of any end-of-course examinations taken
3. The results of any vocational education certification examinations taken

No individual record of accomplishment shall be released to any person, other than the student's parent/guardian or a teacher, counselor, or administrator directly involved with the student, without the written consent of the student's parent/guardian, or the student if he/she is an adult or emancipated minor. The student or his/her parent/guardian may authorize the release of the record of accomplishment to a postsecondary educational institution for the purposes of credit, placement, or admission. (Education Code 60607)
