---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6162.51"
title: "State Academic Achievement Tests"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=ZDsKGlwOrkYAChZyNVVsEA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Superintendent or designee shall administer the California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) to all district students at applicable grade levels, except those students exempted by law.

The students of any charter school that receives its state funding allocation through the district shall be tested in coordination with the testing of district students. In addition, the Superintendent or designee shall arrange for the testing of students in any alternative education program or program conducted off campus, including, but not limited to, non-classroom based programs, continuation schools, independent study, community day schools, county community schools, juvenile court schools, or nonpublic, nonsectarian schools. No test shall be administered in a home or hospital except by a test administrator or test examiner. (5 CCR 851)

On or before July 1 of each year, the Superintendent or designee shall designate a district coordinator who shall oversee all matters related to the testing program and serve as the district representative and liaison with the test contractor and the California Department of Education (CDE). The Superintendent or designee shall also designate a coordinator for each test site. The duties of the district and site test coordinators shall include those specified in 5 CCR 857-858. (5 CCR 857-858)

The Superintendent or designee also shall appoint trained test administrator(s) to administer the CAASPP achievement tests and test examiner(s) to administer the California Alternate Assessments. A test examiner shall be a certificated or licensed employee of the district or county office of education. (5 CCR 850)

As appropriate, the Superintendent or designee shall assign a specially trained district employee to serve as a test proctor to assist the test examiner; a specially trained district employee, or other person supervised by a district employee, to serve as a translator to translate the test directions into a student's primary language; and a district employee to serve as a scribe to transcribe a student's responses to the format required by the test. A student's parent/guardian or sibling shall not be eligible to be that student's translator or scribe. (5 CCR 850)

All test administrators, test examiners, proctors, translators, scribes, district and site test coordinators, and other persons having access to any of the CAASPP achievement tests and corresponding test materials, assessment technology platform, or tests administered pursuant to Education Code 60640 shall acknowledge the limited purpose of their access to the achievement tests by signing a test security affidavit. In addition, all district and site test coordinators shall sign a test security agreement before receiving any CAASPP achievement tests and corresponding test materials. The test security affidavit and test security agreement shall be those set forth in 5 CCR 859. (5 CCR 850, 859)

**Tests Included in the State Assessment System**

The district shall administer the following CAASPP assessments: (Education Code 60640; 5 CCR 851.5)

1. The CAASPP achievement tests for English language arts and mathematics in grades 3-8 and 11, except that:
  1. Recently arrived English learners, defined pursuant to Education Code 60603 as English learners who are in their first 12 months of attending a school in the United States, shall be exempted from taking the English language arts assessment to the extent allowed by federal law. A recently arrived English learner may be administered the test upon request by his/her parent/guardian.
  2. Students with disabilities who are unable to participate in the English language arts and mathematics assessments, even with the resources described in the section "Testing Variations" below, shall be provided an alternate test when designated in their individualized education program (IEP), as provided in item #3 below. ​​​​​​​
2. Science assessments at grades 5, 8, and 10 However, students with disabilities who are unable to participate in the science assessments, even with the resources described in the "Testing Variations" section below, shall be provided an alternate test when designated in their IEP, as provided in item #3 below.
3. For students with disabilities who are unable to take the tests specified in items #1-2 above, even with appropriate accommodations or other testing resources, and who have an IEP that designates the use of alternate tests at the applicable grade levels: ​​​​​​​
  1. California Alternate Assessment in English language arts and mathematics for students with significant cognitive disabilities
  2. For the science assessment, either the California Modified Assessment or, for students with significant cognitive disabilities, the California Alternate Performance Assessment

In addition, the Superintendent or designee may administer a primary language assessment to English learners. Administration of this test shall not replace the administration of the above tests, administered in English, to English learners. (Education Code 60640)

The primary language assessment also may be used to assess students in a dual language immersion program who are not limited English proficient or who are redesignated fluent English proficient, subject to approval by the California Department of Education (CDE) of an agreement between the district and the state testing contractor. (Education Code 60640)

**Exemptions**

Each year the Superintendent or designee shall notify parents/guardians of their child's participation in the CAASPP and of the provisions of Education Code 60615 related to exemptions from testing. (5 CCR 852)

A parent/guardian may annually submit to the school a written request to excuse his/her child from any or all parts of the CAASPP assessments for the school year, and such a request shall be granted by the Superintendent or designee. However, district employees shall not solicit or encourage any exemption request on behalf of any student or group of students. (Education Code 60615; 5 CCR 852)

If a parent/guardian submits an exemption request after testing has begun, any test(s) completed before the request is submitted will be scored and the results reported to the parent/guardian and included in the student's records. (5 CCR 852)

**Testing Period**

The Superintendent or designee shall establish testing days for district students within the following available testing windows: (5 CCR 855)

1. Assessments in English language arts and mathematics shall be administered between the date on which at least 66 percent of the school's or track's annual instructional days for grades 3-8, or at least 80 percent of the annual instructional days for grade 11, have been completed and the last day of instruction for the regular annual calendar of the school or track.
2. All science assessments, including CAPA and CMA, shall be administered during an available testing window of 25 instructional days that includes 12 instructional days before and after completion of 85 percent of the school's or track's annual instructional days.
3. Beginning in the 2016-17 school year, the CAA shall be administered during the available testing windows specified in item #1.
4. The primary language assessment shall be administered to English learners within the testing window specified in item #2.

Within the above testing windows, the Superintendent or designee may designate one testing period for each school or track or, if a school has multiple tracks, a selected testing period for each track. The district shall not exceed six selected testing periods within the available testing window. The testing period shall be no fewer than 25 consecutive instructional days and may be extended up to an additional 10 consecutive instructional days if still within the available testing window set forth in items #1-4 above. (5 CCR 855)

Students who are absent during testing shall be provided an opportunity to take the tests within the testing window.

**Testing Variations**

CAASPP achievement tests and the primary language test shall be administered in accordance with the manuals or other instructions provided by the test contractor or CDE except that, as appropriate, the following testing variations may be used: (5 CCR 850, 853-853.8)

1. Universal tools specified in 5 CCR 853.5 may be used with any student.
2. Designated supports specified in 5 CCR 853.5 and, if an English learner, in 5 CCR 853.7 , may be used with a student for whom the need has been indicated by an educator or team of educators, with parent/guardian and student input as appropriate, or for whom the need is specified in the student's IEP or Section 504 plan.
3. Accommodations specified in 5 CCR 853.5 may be used with a student with disabilities when included in the student's IEP or Section 504 plan as resources that are regularly used in the classroom for the student's instruction and/or assessment(s). Such accommodations shall be either utilized in the assessment environment or consist of changes in procedures or materials that increase equitable access during the assessment.
4. An unlisted resource that has not been specifically identified as an approved universal tool, designated support, or accommodation may be used with a student who has an IEP or Section 504 plan provided that the resource is one that is regularly used in the classroom for instruction and/or assessment and the CDE has approved its use. At least 10 business days prior to the student's first day of CAASPP testing, the district or school site test coordinator may electronically submit a request to the CDE for approval to use that unlisted resource during that year. If the CDE determines that the unlisted resource changes the construct being measured, the unlisted resource may nevertheless be used with the student in order to generate an individual score report even though the student shall not be counted in the participation rate for accountability measures. (5 CCR 853.8)

In the administration of the CAA to a student with significant cognitive disabilities, the student may have all instructional supports that may be used in daily instruction or assessment, including language and physical supports, with the exception of any inappropriate test practices listed in test administration manuals. (5 CCR 850, 853.6)

**Report of Test Results**

For any state assessments that produce valid individual student results, the Superintendent or designee shall forward or transmit the student's test results to his/her parents/guardians within 20 working days from receipt of the results from the test contractor or, if the district receives the results from the contractor after the last day of instruction for the school year, then within the first 20 working days of the next school year. The report shall include a clear explanation of the purpose of the test, the student's score, and its intended use by the district. An individual student's scores shall also be reported to his/her school and teacher(s) and shall be included in his/her student record. (Education Code 60641; 5 CCR 863)

With parent/guardian consent, the Superintendent or designee may release a student's test results to a postsecondary educational institution for the purposes of credit, placement, determination of readiness for college-level coursework, or admission. (Education Code 60641)

The Superintendent or designee shall present districtwide, school-level, and grade-level results to the Board of Education at a regularly scheduled meeting. The Board shall not receive individual students' scores or the relative position of any individual student. (Education Code 49076, 60641)
