---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6163.2"
title: "Animals At School"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "02/28/2024"
date_last_reviewed: "02/28/2024"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=HuSDB2lHBln7dSAb0cH3xA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Governing Board recognizes that animals can contribute to the district's instructional program by being effective teaching aids to students and by assisting individuals with disabilities to access district programs and activities. In addition, instruction related to the care and treatment of animals teaches students a sense of responsibility and promotes the humane treatment of living creatures.

1. Service Animals The District allows services animals that assist individuals with disabilities consistent with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations and California Civil Code section 54.2. A “service animal” is defined as “any dog that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability. Other species of animals, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained, are not service animals for the purposes of this definition.” (28 CFR 35.104)
2. Therapy Dogs The Board also recognizes that therapy dogs (or comfort dogs) used on campus can provide physical, social, and emotional benefits to students and employees. Therapy dogs must be approved by the Superintendent or designee before they can be permitted on campus.
3. Facility Dogs Instruction related to the care and treatment of animals teaches students a sense of responsibility and promotes the humane treatment of living creatures. Facility dogs must be approved by the Superintendent or designee before they can be permitted on campus.
4. Emotional Support Dogs Emotional support dogs are not service animals and are not covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Such animals may, however, be permitted as reasonable accommodations for students under section 504 or for staff by participation in an interactive process with the appropriate district supervisor. The Superintendent or designee shall develop rules and procedures to ensure that when animals are brought to school, the health, safety, and welfare of students, staff, and the animals are protected. However, the district assumes no liability for the safety of animals allowed on district property.
