---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6164.41"
title: "Children With Disabilities Enrolled By Their Parents In Private School"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=kg7SA0A5lAEkMKfNdweecA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Definitions**

Parentally placed private school children with disabilities means children with disabilities who are voluntarily enrolled by their parents/guardians in a private school or facility within district boundaries, including children who are attending a private school or facility within district boundaries but who reside in another district or state. (34 CFR 300.130, 300.131)

Private school or facility means a private full-time day school, including a religious school, located within district boundaries, that has filed an affidavit with the California Department of Education pursuant to Education Code 33190 and is registered in the California Private School Directory.

**Consultation with Private School Representatives**

The Superintendent or designee shall consult with all private school representatives and representatives of parents/guardians of parentally placed private school children with disabilities during the design and development of equitable services for the children. In order to ensure a meaningful and timely consultation, the consultation shall include: (20 USC 1412(a)(3); 34 CFR 300.134; Education Code 56301)

1. The child find process and how parentally placed private school children suspected of having a disability can participate equitably
2. How parents/guardians, teachers, and private school officials will be informed of the child find process
3. The determination of the proportionate share of federal funds available to serve parentally placed private school children with disabilities and how this share is calculated
4. How the consultation process will operate throughout the school year to ensure that identified children can meaningfully participate in equitable services
5. How, where, and by whom equitable services will be provided including a discussion about the types of services, alternate service delivery mechanisms, how services will be apportioned if funds are insufficient to serve all of the identified children, and how and when those decisions will be made
6. In the event that the district and private school disagree on the provision of or the types of services, how the district will provide the private school officials with a written explanation of the reasons that the district chose to not provide the services

When meaningful and timely consultation has occurred, the district shall obtain a written affirmation signed by the representatives of participating private schools. If the private school representatives do not provide the affirmation within a reasonable period of time, the district shall forward documentation of the consultation process to the California Department of Education. (34 CFR 300.135; Education Code 56172)

After the consultation has occurred, the district shall ensure an annual count of the number of parentally placed children with disabilities attending private schools located within the district. This count shall be conducted between October 1 and December 1 each year and shall be used to determine the amount the district must spend on providing equitable services to the children in the subsequent fiscal year. (34 CFR 300.133)

**Provision of Services**

A child with a disability parentally placed in a private school has no individual right to receive some or all of the special education and related services that he/she would receive if enrolled in public school. Such a child may receive a different amount of services than students with disabilities in public schools. (34 CFR 300.137, 300.138)

The district shall evaluate all identified parentally placed private school children with disabilities for purposes of considering them for equitable services. This evaluation shall be conducted in accordance with the timelines and procedures for evaluating public school students with disabilities pursuant to 34 CFR 300.300-300.311, including providing the parent/guardian with a copy of the procedural safeguards notice. (34 CFR 300.131, 300.504)

In order to ensure that each child entitled to special education and related services from the district receives an offer of a free appropriate public education (FAPE), the district where the child resides shall develop an individualized education program (IEP) for each identified child who attends a private school located in the district and who resides in the district.

However, the district shall not develop an IEP if the parent/guardian makes clear his/her intention to keep the child enrolled in private school. In such situations, the district shall obtain written certification confirming the parent/guardian's intention to keep his/her child enrolled in private school, including the fact that he/she is not interested in the development of an IEP or the district's offer of FAPE. If the parent/guardian does not provide confirmation in writing, the district shall obtain oral confirmation of the parent/guardian's intention and confirm the conversation in writing.

If the child resides in a different district, then this district and the district of residence shall work together to ensure that the parent/guardian receives an offer of FAPE in accordance with law.

The district shall develop and implement an individual services plan (ISP) for each identified private school child with a disability that describes the equitable services that the district will provide, as agreed to by the district and private school representatives during the consultation process. (34 CFR 300.138)

The ISP shall be developed, reviewed, and revised consistent with 34 CFR 300.121-300.324. A representative of the private school shall be invited to attend each ISP team meeting. If the representative cannot attend the meeting, the district shall use other methods to ensure the representative's participation, including individual or conference calls. (34 CFR 300.137, 300.138)

The district may provide services on the private school premises, including a religious school, to the extent consistent with law. The services shall be provided by personnel meeting the same standards as personnel providing services in the public school. The personnel shall either be district employees or contractors of the district. (34 CFR 300.138, 300.139)

The district shall offer transportation to the child if services are provided on a site other than the child's school and the ISP team determines that transportation is necessary for the child to benefit from or participate in the services provided in the ISP. Depending on the timing of the services, the district shall provide transportation from the child's school or home to the service site and from the service site to the child's school or home. (34 CFR 300.139)

The district may place equipment and supplies in a private school for the period of time necessary to provide the services pursuant to the ISP. All such equipment shall remain the property of the district and must be able to be removed without causing damage to the private school. The district shall remove the equipment when no longer required by the child, when the child no longer attends the private school, or when removal is necessary to prevent unauthorized use. (34 CFR 300.144)
