---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6170.1"
title: "Transitional Kindergarten"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "01/27/2021"
date_last_reviewed: "01/27/2021"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=5XS8YDslshjAQguZplusZDrUQ7BQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Governing Board desires to offer a high-quality transitional kindergarten (TK) program for eligible children who do not yet meet the minimum age criterion for kindergarten. The TK program shall assist students in developing the academic, social, and emotional skills needed to succeed in kindergarten and beyond.

The district's TK program shall be the first year of a two-year kindergarten program. (Education Code 48000)

The Board encourages ongoing collaboration among district preschool staff, other preschool providers, elementary teachers, administrators, and parents/guardians in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the district's TK program.

**Eligibility**

The district's TK program shall admit children whose fifth birthday is from September 2 through December 2. (Education Code 48000)

Parents/guardians of eligible children shall be notified of the availability of the TK program and of the age, residency, immunization, and any other enrollment requirements. Enrollment in the TK program shall be voluntary.

On a case-by-case basis, a child whose fifth birthday is on or before September 1 may be admitted into the district's TK program upon request of a child's parents/guardians, if the Superintendent or designee determines that it is in the child's best interest.

At any time during the school year, the district may admit into the TK program a child whose fifth birthday is after December 2 of that same school year, provided that the Superintendent or designee recommends that enrollment in a TK program is in the child's best interest and the

child's parents/guardians approve. Prior to such enrollment, the child's parents/guardians shall be provided information regarding the advantages and disadvantages and any other explanatory information about the effect of early admittance. (Education Code 48000)

**Curriculum and Instruction**

The district's TK program shall be based on a modified kindergarten curriculum that is age and developmentally appropriate. (Education Code 48000)

The program shall be aligned with the preschool learning foundations and preschool curriculum frameworks developed by the California Department of Education (CDE). It shall be designed to facilitate students' development in essential knowledge and skills related to language and literacy, mathematics, physical development, health, visual and performing arts, science, history- social science, English language development, and social-emotional development.

The Board shall establish the length of the school day in the district's TK program, which shall be at least three hours long with no more than 240 instructional minutes. If the district has adopted an extended-day kindergarten, the length of the school day for the TK program may be different than the length of the school day for the kindergarten program either at the same or different school sites. The Superintendent or designee shall annually report to CDE as to whether the district's TK programs are offered full day, part day, or both. (Education Code 8973, 37202, 46111, 46115, 46117, 48003)

TK students may be placed in the same classrooms as kindergarten students when necessary, provided that the instructional program is differentiated to meet student needs.

TK students may be commingled in the same classroom with four-year-old students from a California State Preschool Program as long as all of the requirements of each program are met and the classroom does not include students enrolled in TK for a second year or students enrolled in a regular kindergarten. (Education Code 8235, 48000)

**Staffing**

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that teachers assigned to teach in TK classes possess a teaching credential or permit from the Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC) that authorizes such instruction.

A credentialed teacher who is first assigned to a TK class after July 1, 2015, shall, by August 1, 2021, have at least 24 units in early childhood education and/or child development, comparable experience in a preschool setting, and/or a child development teacher permit issued by CTC. (Education Code 48000)

The Superintendent or designee may provide professional development as needed to ensure that TK teachers are knowledgeable about the standards and effective instructional methods for teaching young children.

Students who complete the TK program shall be eligible to continue in kindergarten the following school year. Parents/guardians of such students shall not be required to submit a signed Kindergarten Continuance Form for kindergarten attendance.

However, whenever children who would otherwise be age-eligible for kindergarten are enrolled in TK, the Superintendent or designee shall obtain a Kindergarten Continuance Form signed by the parent/guardian near the end of the TK year consenting to the child's enrollment in kindergarten the following year.

A student shall not attend more than two years in a combination of TK and kindergarten. (Education Code 46300)

The Superintendent or designee may develop or identify appropriate formal and/or informal assessments of TK students' development and progress. The Superintendent or designee shall monitor and regularly report to the Board regarding program implementation, the progress of students in meeting related academic standards, and student preparedness for future education.
