---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6173.4"
title: "Education For American Indian Students"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "11/16/2020"
date_last_reviewed: "11/16/2020"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=QggFplusmslshnazdlzRIILSbo6Q%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

With the assistance of federal Title VI funding for the education of children from federally recognized tribes, the district shall offer programs and activities to meet the unique cultural, language, and educational needs of American Indian students, as defined in 20 USC 7491. Program objectives and outcomes shall be based on state academic standards. (20 USC 7424)

In developing, implementing, and evaluating Title VI programs and activities, the Superintendent or designee shall consult with and involve parents/guardians and family members of American Indian students and other community representatives. (20 USC 7424)

The district shall establish a committee that is composed of, and selected by, parents/guardians and family members of American Indian students, representatives of tribes on tribal lands located within 50 miles of any district school that serves any children of the tribes, teachers, and, if appropriate, American Indian students enrolled in secondary schools in the district. The majority of the committee shall be parents/guardians and family members of American Indian students. The committee shall participate in program development and provide written approval for the program. (20 USC 7424)

The district's Title VI program for American Indian education may include any of the following services and activities: (20 USC 7425)

1. Activities that support Native American language programs and Native American language restoration programs, which may be taught by traditional leaders
2. Culturally related activities that support the district's program
3. Early childhood and family programs that emphasize school readiness
4. Enrichment programs that focus on problem solving and cognitive skills development and directly support the attainment of state academic standards
5. Integrated educational services in combination with other programs that meet the needs of American Indian students and their families, including programs that promote parent/guardian involvement in school activities and increase student achievement
6. Career preparation activities that enable American Indian students to participate in career technical education programs, including programs for mentoring and apprenticeship
7. Activities to educate individuals so as to prevent violence, suicide, and substance abuse
8. The acquisition of equipment that is essential to achieve program goals
9. Activities that promote the incorporation of culturally responsive teaching and learning strategies into the district's educational program
10. Family literacy services
11. Activities that recognize and support the unique cultural and educational needs of American Indian students, and incorporate appropriately qualified tribal elders and seniors
12. Dropout prevention strategies for American Indian students
13. Strategies to meet the educational needs of American Indian students in correctional facilities, including such strategies that support American Indian students who are transitioning from such facilities to schools served by the district

Any federal funds received to support American Indian education programs shall be used to supplement, not supplant, state or local funds allocated for such purposes. (20 USC 7424)

Program funds may be used to support a Title I schoolwide program pursuant to 20 USC 6314 if approved by the committee established pursuant to 20 USC 7424, provided that the schoolwide program is consistent with the purpose of American Indian education programs and the district's application identifies how the use of such funds in a schoolwide program will produce benefits to American Indian students that would not be achieved if not used in a schoolwide program. (20 USC 7424)

As needed, professional development shall be provided to teachers and other school staff to assist them in working with American Indian students and carrying out Title VI programs. (20 USC 7424)

The Superintendent or designee shall maintain a record of the information establishing the status of each student as an American Indian student eligible for assistance through the federal American Indian education program. (20 USC 7427)

The Superintendent or designee shall periodically assess the progress of American Indian students, including American Indian students who do not participate in programs funded through Title VI, in meeting program goals and objectives. Assessment results shall be provided to the Board, the committee established pursuant to 20 USC 7424, tribes whose children are served by the district, and the community. (20 USC 7424)
