---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6173.2"
title: "Education Of Children Of Military Families"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=RV7xPyaiLPIv4Q67YXcYplusg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Children of military families are school-aged children in the household of: (Education Code 49701)

1. Members who are in full-time duty status in the active uniformed service of the United States, including any member of the National Guard and Reserve on active duty order pursuant to 10 USC 1209 or 1211
2. Members or veterans of the uniformed services who are severely injured and medically discharged or retired, for one year after their medical discharge or retirement
3. Members of the uniformed services who have died while on active duty or as a result of injuries sustained on active duty, for one year after their death

**Enrollment**

The Superintendent or designee shall facilitate the enrollment of children of military families and ensure that they are not placed at a disadvantage due to difficulty in the transfer of their records from previous school districts and/or variations in entrance or age requirements. (Education Code 49701)

When a child of a military family is transferring into the district, the Superintendent or designee may enroll the child based on the child's placement in the previous district, pending receipt of the child's records. Upon enrollment, the Superintendent or designee shall immediately request the student's records from the student's previous district. The Superintendent or designee shall allow the student 30 days from the date of enrollment to obtain all required immunizations. (Education Code 49701)

When a child of a military family is transferring out of the district, the Superintendent or designee shall provide the student's parents/guardians with a complete set of the student's records or, if the official student record cannot be released, an unofficial or "hand-carried" record. Upon request from the new district, the Superintendent or designee shall provide a copy of the student's record to the new district within 10 days. (Education Code 49701)

A child of an active military duty parent/guardian shall not be prohibited from transferring out of the district to any district that has declared itself to be a "school district of choice" pursuant to Education Code 48300-48316, if the other school district approves the application for transfer. (Education Code 48301)

**Placement and Attendance**

The Superintendent or designee shall initially honor the placement of any child of a military family in educational courses and programs based on the child's enrollment and/or assessment in his/her previous school. The Superintendent or designee may, to the extent permitted by Board policy, waive course or program prerequisites, preconditions, and/or application deadlines when making decisions regarding placement of children of military families and their eligibility for extracurricular academic, athletic, and social activities. (Education Code 49701)

When a child of a military family transferring into the district has been identified as an individual with a disability pursuant to 20 USC 1400-1482, the Superintendent or designee shall provide comparable services to the student based on his/her current individualized education program. In addition, when the child of a military family transferring into the district is eligible for services under Section 504 of the federal Rehabilitation Act, the Superintendent or designee shall make reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of the student subject to the student's existing Section 504 plan. The district may authorize subsequent evaluations of the student to ensure appropriate placement. (Education Code 49701)

When a student's parent/guardian is an active duty member and is called to duty, is on leave from, or is immediately returned from deployment to a combat zone or to combat support posting, the Superintendent or designee may grant additional excused absences to the student to visit with his/her parent/guardian. (Education Code 49701)

**Graduation**

The Superintendent or designee shall facilitate the on-time graduation of children of military families by providing supplemental instruction to incoming students as necessary to enable them to meet the district's graduation requirements. (Education Code 49701)

The Superintendent or designee may also waive specific district course requirements for graduation if similar coursework has been satisfactorily completed by the student in his/her previous school. (Education Code 49701)

If after considering all alternatives, the Superintendent or designee believes that a student who has transferred into the district in grade 12 will not be able to satisfy the district's graduation requirements in time to graduate with his/her class, the Superintendent or designee shall work with the sending district to have the sending district issue the student its diploma, provided the student satisfies that sending district's graduation requirements. (Education Code 49701)

Upon request of a school district to which a former district student has transferred, the Superintendent or designee shall issue the district's diploma of graduation to the former student, provided the student has satisfactorily completed the district's graduation requirements, including the passage of the high school exit examination.
