---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6178.1"
title: "Work-Based Learning"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=FvW0W1sWhPf5UQjY7NJ0Pg%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Work Experience Education**

The district's work experience education (WEE) program shall consist of one or more of the following types of unpaid and paid on-the-job experiences: (Education Code 51764; 5 CCR 10071)

1. Exploratory WEE which provides students with a combination of classroom instruction in WEE and unpaid opportunities to observe and sample systematically a variety of conditions of work for the purpose of ascertaining their interest and suitability for the occupation they are exploring The length of exploratory work experience assignments may vary depending on the aptitude of the student, the occupation being explored, the facilities of the work station, and the job classification. A student may not participate in an exploratory work experience assignment if he/she receives pay for like work at the same work station or similar job outside of the WEE program.
2. General WEE which has as its purpose the application of basic skills of reading, writing, and computation and which enables students to acquire general and specific occupational skills through a combination of supervised paid employment in any occupational field and related classroom instruction in WEE
3. Career technical WEE which reinforces and extends career learning opportunities for students through a combination of related classroom instruction in WEE and supervised paid or unpaid employment in the occupation for which their career technical course in school prepares them

The Superintendent or designee shall develop and present to the Board of Education for approval a district plan for WEE in accordance with 5 CCR 10070.

Employment opportunities may be provided by any public or private employer in areas within or outside the district, either within California or in a contiguous state. (Education Code 51768)

The student-teacher ratio in the WEE program shall not exceed 125 students per full-time equivalent certificated teacher-coordinator. (Education Code 46300)

The minimum day for students enrolled in a WEE program shall be four periods totaling at least 180 minutes in duration, unless the school or student meets one of the conditions specified in Education Code 46144 or 46147. (Education Code 46144, 46147)

A WEE program offered during the summer shall be conducted in the same time period as the regular summer school program and shall conform to all appropriate laws and regulations applicable to WEE.

The teacher-coordinator shall make at least two on-site contacts per semester with each work supervisor or at least one on-site contact during summer school to evaluate student performance. (5 CCR 10074)

Participating students shall receive at least the equivalent of one instructional period per week of related classroom instruction or counseling by a certificated employee, in sessions scheduled intermittently throughout the semester. (Education Code 51760.3)

A student shall be granted up to 40 semester periods of credit for WEE within the following limits: (Education Code 51760.3; 5 CCR 1635)

1. For exploratory WEE, the student may earn 10 semester periods for each semester, with a maximum of 20 semester periods earned in two semesters.
2. For either general or career technical WEE, the student may earn 10 semester periods for each semester, with a maximum of 40 semester periods.

In order to receive credit for satisfactory completion of a general or career technical WEE program, a student shall be age 16 years or older. However, a student who is under age 16 may be granted credit under any of the following conditions: (Education Code 51760.3)

1. The student is enrolled in grade 11 or higher.
2. The principal certifies that the student needs the program in order to pursue employment opportunities or to encourage the student's continuing enrollment as a full-time student.
3. The student is a student with disabilities who has an individualized education program prescribing the type of training for which participation in a WEE program is deemed appropriate.

**Cooperative Career Technical Education Program/Community Classrooms**

To be eligible for program participation, a student shall be concurrently enrolled in a career technical education (CTE) course or program approved by the California Department of Education and shall meet other criteria specified in 5 CCR 10103 as applicable. (5 CCR 10082, 10103)

Teachers assigned to the program shall locate and select training stations to provide participating students with unpaid on-the-job learning experiences in the specific occupation related to the approved course or program. (5 CCR 10086, 10107)

Related classroom instruction shall be provided in at least one instructional period per week, with a minimum equivalency of three instructional periods, of at least 50 minutes each, per week. (5 CCR 10085, 10106)

The cooperative CTE program teacher shall make at least one visitation every four weeks to each employer to ensure that the provisions of the training agreement are being met and that students are acquiring the competencies identified in their individual training plans. One out of every two visits to the training station shall include an observation of the student engaged in on-the-job training experiences. (5 CCR 10109)

Students shall be granted academic credit for satisfactory completion of the program. The teacher shall be responsible for evaluating the student's performance in the CTE course and, with the assistance of the employer, the student's participation at the training station. (5 CCR 10081, 10102)

**Job Shadowing**

The program coordinator shall identify job shadowing placements with the goal of providing students with exposure to a broad range of career options and employment settings.

The program coordinator shall supervise job shadowing activities, including the coordination of the student's and employer's schedules and consultation with the student's other teachers when necessary.

Participating students may attend job shadowing opportunities for no less than three hours and no more than 25 hours in one semester, intersession, or summer school session. (Education Code 51769)
