---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6178.1"
title: "Work-Based Learning"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=3Q51h15zplusRla91JpYBujbA%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to facilitate the preparation of secondary school students for college and career by providing work-based learning opportunities which link classroom learning with real-world experiences. Work-based learning opportunities offered by the district shall be designed to teach the skills, attitudes, and knowledge necessary for successful employment and to reinforce mastery of both academic and career technical education (CTE) standards.

Work-based learning opportunities offered by the district may include paid and/or unpaid work experiences, including, but not limited to, work experience education as defined in Education Code 51764, cooperative CTE or community classrooms as defined in Education Code 52372.1, job shadowing as defined in Education Code 51769, student internships, apprenticeships, service learning, employment in social/civic or school-based enterprises, and technology-based or other simulated work experiences.

The Superintendent or designee may involve local businesses or business organizations in planning and implementing work-based learning opportunities that support the district's vision and goals for student learning and local workforce development efforts. He/she also may work with postsecondary institutions, community organizations, and others to identify opportunities for work-based learning.

When required by law, the Superintendent or designee shall develop a written training agreement with the employer that describes the conditions and requirements to be met by all parties and shall develop an individual training plan for each student which outlines the objectives or competencies that the student is expected to accomplish at the work site. (5 CCR 10070-10071, 10087, 10108)

District staff shall coordinate with the workplace supervisor or mentor to ensure appropriate guidance and supervision of participating students and maximum educational benefit from placement in the program.

A minor student shall be issued a work permit before beginning employment through a paid work-based learning program in accordance with law, Board policy, and administrative regulation. (Education Code 49113, 49160)

All laws or rules applicable to minors in employment relationships shall be applicable to students enrolled in work-based learning programs. (Education Code 51763)

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that any student participating in a work-based learning program off school grounds is covered under the employer's insurance, as applicable, in the event the student is injured.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that any teacher/coordinator of a work-based learning program possesses the appropriate credential issued by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing. (5 CCR 10075, 10080, 10100)

The Superintendent or designee shall maintain records for each student's participation in the program, including, but not limited to, the student's individualized training plan, his/her employment hours and job site, work permit if applicable, employer's report of student's attendance and job performance, the teacher/coordinator's consultations and observations, and the student's grade and credits earned.

The Superintendent or designee shall periodically report to the Board regarding program implementation and effectiveness, including, but not limited to, rates of student participation in work-based learning programs and assessment results of participating students.
