---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "6178.2"
title: "Regional Occupational Center/Program"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "06/14/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/14/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=iCadT7pluszyBYplussK49kLSulQ%3D%3D&ptid=ruE8yj8gaZHBkLjNHWmKZw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to provide opportunities for district students to receive specialized training and career technical skills through a regional occupational center or program (ROC/P) that prepares them for employment, advanced training, or postsecondary education.

The district shall refer eligible students to an ROC/P that has been established by the County Superintendent of Schools and is under the governance of the County Board of Education. (Education Code 52301, 52310.5)

The Board and Superintendent or designee shall maintain effective communications with the County Board and County Superintendent in order to ensure that district students receive a high-quality career technical program. The Superintendent or designee shall work with the County Superintendent to identify appropriate means for the district to provide input into ROC/P program development, budget adoption, program evaluation, and other matters.

The Board may enter into a contract with the county-operated ROC/P to provide district teachers, student support services, facilities, or other services to students enrolled in the ROC/P.

**Student Eligibility and Participation**

To enroll in the ROC/P on a part-time or full-time basis, a district high school or adult student must have his/her admittance approved by the ROC/P based on a determination that he/she will benefit from the program. To be eligible, a student must be at least 16 years of age, unless he/she meets one of the conditions specified in Education Code 52314. (Education Code 52314, 52314.5, 52315)

Adult students may have access to ROC/P classes offered on high school campuses during the school day.

Credits earned from courses completed in an ROC/P may be applied toward fulfillment of high school graduation course requirements. (Education Code 51225.3, 52310)

**Student Services**

The district's academic counseling program shall be designed to increase students' awareness of available educational options aligned with their career goals, including, as appropriate, career technical programs offered through the ROC/P.
