---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3311.3"
title: "Design-Build Contracts"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "09/13/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "09/13/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=2wdWy3HAi9OZrLVnAaslshMCw%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education may approve a contract with a single entity for both design and construction of any school facility in excess of $1,000,000, awarding the contract to either the low bid or the best value as determined by evaluation of objective criteria. (Education Code 17250.20)

Design-build documents shall not include provisions for long-term project operations, but may include operations during a training or transition period. (Education Code 17250.25)

The procurement process for design-build projects shall be as follows: (Education Code 17250.25, 17250.35)

1. The district shall prepare a set of documents setting forth the scope and estimated price of the project. The documents may include, but are not limited to:
  1. The size, type, and desired design character of the project
  2. Performance specifications that cover the quality of materials, equipment, and workmanship
  3. Preliminary plans or building layouts
  4. Any other information deemed necessary to describe adequately the district's needs

The performance specifications and any plans shall be prepared by a design professional who is duly licensed and registered in California.

2. The district shall prepare and issue a request for qualifications in order to prequalify, or develop a short list of, the design-build entities whose proposals shall be evaluated for final selection. The request for qualifications shall include, but is not limited to, all of the following elements: ​​​​​​​
  1. Identification of the basic scope and needs of the project or contract, the expected cost range, the methodology that will be used by the district to evaluate proposals, the procedure for final selection of the design-build entity, and any other information deemed necessary by the district to inform interested parties of the contracting opportunity
  2. Significant factors that the district reasonably expects to consider in evaluating qualifications, including technical design and construction expertise, acceptable safety record, and all other non-price-related factors
  3. A standard template request for statements of qualifications prepared by the district, which shall contain all of the information required pursuant to Education Code 17250.25

The district also may identify specific types of subcontractors that must be included in the statement of qualifications and proposal.

A design-build entity shall not be prequalified or short-listed unless the entity provides an enforceable commitment to the district that the entity and its subcontractors at every tier will use a skilled and trained workforce, as defined in Education Code 17250.25, to perform all work on the project or contract that falls within an apprenticeable occupation in the building and construction trades. The entity may demonstrate such commitment through a project labor agreement, by becoming a party to the district's project labor agreement, or through an agreement with the district to provide evidence of compliance on a monthly basis during the performance of the project or contract.

3. The district shall prepare a request for proposals (RFP) that invites prequalified or short-listed entities to submit competitive sealed proposals in a manner prescribed by the district. The RFP shall include the information identified in items #2a and 2b above and the relative importance or weight assigned to each of the factors. If the district uses a best value selection method for a project, the district may reserve the right to request proposal revisions and hold discussions and negotiations with responsive proposers, in which case the district shall so specify in the request for proposals and shall publish separately or incorporate into the request for proposals applicable procedures to be observed by the district to ensure that any discussions or negotiations are conducted in good faith.
4. For those projects utilizing low bid as the final selection method, the bidding process shall result in lump-sum bids by the prequalified or short-listed design-build entities, and the contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
5. For those projects utilizing best value as a selection method, the following procedures shall be used: ​​​​​​​
  1. Competitive proposals shall be evaluated using only the criteria and selection procedures specifically identified in the request for proposals. Criteria shall be weighted as deemed appropriate by the district and shall, at a minimum, include price, unless a stipulated sum is specified; technical design and construction experience; and life-cycle costs over 15 or more years.
  2. Following any discussions or negotiations with responsive proposers and completion of the evaluation process, the responsive proposers shall be ranked on a determination of value provided, provided that no more than three proposers are required to be ranked.
  3. The contract shall be awarded to the responsible entity whose proposal is determined by the district to have offered the best value to the public. ​​​​​​​
  4. The district shall publicly announce the contract award, identifying the entity to which the award is made and the basis of the award. This statement and the contract file shall provide sufficient information to satisfy an external audit.
