---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3311.1"
title: "Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Procedures"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "09/13/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "09/13/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=LTWDF0gcxRyVUzKtuCUAVA%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In awarding contracts for public works projects involving district facilities, the Board of Education desires to obtain the best value to the district and ensure the qualifications of contractors to complete the project in a satisfactory manner. The Board has, by resolution, adopted the procedures set forth in the Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act pursuant to Public Contract Code 22030-22045, including the informal bidding procedures when allowed by law.

The Board delegates to the Superintendent or designee the responsibilities to award any contract eligible for informal bidding procedures and to develop plans, specifications, and working details for all public projects requiring formal bidding procedures.

No work, project, service, or purchase shall be split or separated into smaller work orders or projects for the purpose of evading legal requirements for competitive bidding. (Public Contract Code 22033)

Projects awarded through the UPCCAA shall be subject to the cost accounting procedures established by the California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission. (Public Contract Code 22030)

**Emergency Actions**

When formal bids are required by law but an emergency necessitates immediate repair or replacements, the Board may, upon a four-fifths vote of the Board, proceed to replace or repair a facility without adopting plans, specifications, strain sheets, or working details or giving notice for bids to let contracts. The work may be done by day labor under the direction of the Board and/or contractor. The emergency action shall subsequently be reviewed by the Board in accordance with Public Contract Code 22050 and shall be terminated at the earliest possible date that conditions warrant, so that the remainder of the emergency action may be completed by giving notice for bids to let contracts. (Public Contract Code 1102, 22035, 22050)
