---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3511.1"
title: "Integrated Waste Management"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=DUa3ZvslshF3IMewbWX1kvmlg%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education believes that the conservation of natural resources and the protection of the environment are connected to the district's educational mission and are essential to the health and well-being of the community. The Superintendent or designee shall develop and/or implement a cost-effective, integrated waste management program that incorporates the principles of green school operations.

The district's program shall include strategies designed to help the district reduce solid and hazardous waste generation, improve efficiency in its use of natural resources, and minimize the impact of such use on the environment. The program shall address all areas of the district's operations, including, but not limited to, procurement, resource utilization, and facilities management practices.

The Superintendent or designee may collaborate with city, county, and state agencies and other public or private agencies in developing and implementing the district's integrated waste management program.

The Superintendent or designee shall make every effort to identify funding opportunities for the district's integrated waste management program including applying for available grants or other cost-reduction incentives.

To the extent that funding permits, the Superintendent or designee shall provide appropriate educational and training opportunities to students and staff regarding the benefits and methods of conserving natural resources and protecting the environment.

The Superintendent or designee shall regularly monitor all aspects of the district's integrated waste management program and shall provide an update to the Board on its effectiveness as necessary.
