---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3512.1-E(1)"
title: "Use Of Privately Owned Vehicles"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "02/27/1979"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=qxvMBjY9NHTlI4PslshHIZyiQ%3D%3D&ptid=amIgTZiB9plushNjl6WXhfiOQ%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

ADULT DRIVER/USE OF PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLESThis form must be used when personally owned vehicles of employees, parents, and volunteers areused for school- sponsored activities. A no answer to any statement prohibits the use of this driver
and/or vehicle.
Driver's Name
Date of Event
Event
School
I CERTIFY TO THE FOLLOWING:
1. I am the registered owner/legal lessor of the vehicle, which will be transporting students. I am 21
years old or older.
If vehicle is borrowed, registered owner must verify numbers 4 and 5 below and sign below.
2. I have a valid driver's license. License Number
3. I have a clean driving record in that I have never been convicted of drunk driving, driving under the
influence of drugs, or of reckless driving for the last five (5) years.
4. I have liability/medical coverage on this vehicle with the following limits:
Property Damage $50,000 Medical $5,000 Bodily Injury $100,000-300,000
Name of Insurance Company:
Local Agent (if applicable):
5. My vehicle is not designed to carry more than 9 passengers (including driver) nor will I transport
more than 9 in accordance with the State Vehicle SPAB regulations.
This vehicle is in good working
order (tires, brakes, lights, turn signals, windshield wipers) and that each passenger will have a seat
belt.
Make/Model/Year of Vehicle
License Plate
NumberNumber of passenger seat belts
I certify that the information provided above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
I
understand that my vehicle liability/medical insurance is primary in case of an auto claim and that if
the limits of liability under the owner's policy fails to satisfy the legal liability involved, the District's
policy is secondary, only with regard to vehicles owned and driven for school business by school
employees. There is no excess coverage provided to volunteer or student drivers.
Signature of Driver
Date
Driver's Address
Phone Number
Signature of Registered Owner of Loaned Vehicle
Date

Address
Phone Number
Student's Name
Reviewed by Teacher/Coach/Athletic Director
Date
