---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3513.3"
title: "Tobacco-Free Schools"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "09/12/2018"
date_last_reviewed: "09/12/2018"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=RPUmFZdYd3bPQ6ixOJjSnw%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that possessing, ingesting, smoking and other uses of tobacco, nicotine and cannabis products constitute a serious public health hazard and are inconsistent with district goals to provide a healthy drug-free environment for students and staff.

The Board prohibits smoking, vaping and/or the use of tobacco and cannabis products at any time in district-owned or leased buildings, on district property, and in district vehicles. (Health and Safety Code 104420, 104559, 11362.3, 11362.79)

These prohibitions apply to all employees, students, and visitors at any school-sponsored instructional program, activity, or athletic event held on or off district property. Any written joint use agreement governing community use of district facilities or grounds shall include notice of the district's tobacco and cannabis-free school's policy and consequences for violations of the policy.

Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning, vaping or carrying of any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, tobacco, cannabis or plant product intended for inhalation, whether natural or synthetic, in any manner or form, and includes the use of an electronic smoking device that creates aerosol or vapor or of any oral smoking device for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of smoking. (Business and Professions Code 22950.5; Education Code 48901)

Tobacco and cannabis products include: (Business and Professions Code 22950.5, 26054; Education Code 48901, 48915)

1. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco, nicotine or cannabis that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, or snuff
2. An electronic device that delivers nicotine or other vaporized liquids to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to, an electronic cigarette, mods, cigar, pipe, or hookah
3. Any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco or cannabis product, whether or not sold separately

This policy does not prohibit the use or possession of prescription products and other cessation aids that have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, such as nicotine patch or gum.

Smoking or use of any tobacco-related product or disposal of any tobacco-related waste is prohibited within 25 feet of any playground, except on a public sidewalk located within 25 feet of the playground. In addition, any form of intimidation, threat, or retaliation against a person for attempting to enforce this policy is prohibited. (Health and Safety Code 104495)

Smoking or use of any cannabis-related product or disposal of any cannabis-related waste is prohibited within 1000 feet of any school, day care center, or youth center, except in or upon the grounds of a private residence. In addition, any form of intimidation, threat, or retaliation against a person for attempting to enforce this policy is prohibited. Additionally, it is impermissible to possess, smoke, or ingest cannabis or cannabis products in or upon the grounds of a school, day care center, or youth center while children are present. (Health and Safety Code 11362.3)
