---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3514.1"
title: "Hazardous Substances"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "01/10/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "01/10/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=lt017iWCYkMGMwZ0Dplus5LbQ%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to provide a safe school environment that protects students and employees from exposure to any potentially hazardous substances used in the district's educational program and in the maintenance and operation of district facilities and equipment.

Insofar as reasonably possible, the Superintendent or designee shall minimize the quantities of hazardous substances stored and used on school property. When hazardous substances must be used, the Superintendent or designee shall give preference to materials that cause the least risk to people and the environment.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that all potentially hazardous substances on district properties are inventoried, used, stored, and regularly disposed of in a safe and legal manner.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop, implement, and maintain a written hazard communication program in accordance with 8 CCR 5194 and shall ensure that employees, students, and others as necessary are fully informed about the properties and potential hazards of substances to which they may be exposed.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop specific measures to ensure the safety of students and staff in school laboratories where hazardous chemicals are used. Such measures shall include the development and implementation of a chemical hygiene plan in accordance with 8 CCR 5191 and instruction to students about proper handling of hazardous substances.

The Superintendent or designee shall not order or purchase for use in grades K-6 any arts and crafts materials containing a substance determined by the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment to be toxic. The Superintendent or designee shall not purchase any such toxic material for use in grades 7-12 unless it includes a warning label as specified in Education Code 32065 that identifies any toxic ingredients, warns of potential adverse health effects, and describes procedures for safe use and storage. (Education Code 32064)
