---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3515.4"
title: "Recovery For Property Loss Or Damage"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=7nUV2tdJSrReTDvMOVZnvQ%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Reports by Staff**

District employees shall report any damage to or loss of school property to the principal or designee immediately after such damage or loss is discovered. In those instances in which insurance reimbursement may be involved, the principal or designee shall contact the district, business office.

**Investigation**

The Superintendent or designee shall conduct a complete investigation of any instance of damage to or loss of school property and shall consult law enforcement officials when appropriate. If it is determined that the damage has been committed by any district student, the Superintendent or designee shall initiate appropriate disciplinary procedures against the student.

**Recovery of Damages**

When the individual causing the damage or loss has been identified and the costs of repair, replacement, or cleanup determined, the district's insurance carrier, in conjunction with the Superintendent or designee shall take all practical and reasonable steps to recover the district's costs and shall consult with the district's legal counsel and/or insurance administrator, as appropriate.

Such steps may include the filing of a civil complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover damages from the responsible person and, if the responsible person is a minor, from his/her parent/guardian in accordance with law. Damages may include the cost of repair or replacement of the property, the payment of any reward, interest, court costs, and all other damages as provided by law.

**Payment of Reward**

When authorized according to Board policy, the Superintendent or designee shall pay the reward to the party who provides information sufficient to identify and apprehend the person(s) subsequently determined to be responsible for the damage or loss. If more than one person provides information, the reward shall be divided among them as appropriate.
