---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3515.5"
title: "Sex Offender Notification"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=YHKL5V7XYPd7m4OGWouA0g%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Superintendent or designee shall develop a plan for receiving and communicating information about registered sex offenders residing within district boundaries. He/she shall ensure, at a minimum that the following components are part of the plan:

1. The Superintendent or designee shall appoint a staff member to serve as liaison with law enforcement regarding these matters.
2. The Superintendent or district liaison shall, at the beginning of each school year, contact local law enforcement to coordinate the receipt of information. Law enforcement shall be informed that all notifications and correspondence should be directed to the liaison as well as the individual school sites. A letter shall be sent annually to local law enforcement, identifying the name, phone number, and address of the liaison.
3. The Superintendent or district liaison shall collaborate with law enforcement in order to alert children to the dangers of sex offenders, develop a system for distributing information about sex offenders, and train school staff and parents/guardians about the roles and responsibilities of both the district and law enforcement.
4. The Superintendent or liaison shall, at the beginning of each school year, notify parents/guardians of the district's willingness and intention to work with law enforcement on this matter and shall explain the appropriate roles and responsibilities of both the district and law enforcement. This communication shall also explain:
  1. The reporting requirements pursuant to Penal Code 290 and 290.45 , including the fact that law enforcement is the agency best able to assess the relative danger of a sex offender
  2. The ability of the parents/guardians to contact law enforcement for additional information and to view the information on the Megan's Law Internet website ​​​​​​​
5. When law enforcement notifies the district of the residency or employment of a sex offender within district boundaries, the Superintendent or district liaison shall consult with law enforcement about the appropriate scope of the disclosure. When authorized by law enforcement, the Superintendent or liaison may disclose information about a sex offender to the following staff: ​​​​​​​
  1. The principal of the school which is in the attendance area of the sex offender's residence or place of employment
  2. Teachers and classified personnel at that school, including staff responsible for visitor registration
  3. Principals and staff at adjacent schools, as appropriate
  4. Security staff
  5. Bus drivers
  6. Yard supervisors ​​​​​​​
6. Any staff member who receives information directly from law enforcement regarding registered sex offenders shall immediately contact the Superintendent or liaison in order to help ensure that the district is able to respond appropriately.
7. If an identified sex offender is seen on or near school grounds or around any student, staff shall immediately contact the district liaison. A staff member may also inform local law enforcement.

**Notification to Parents/Guardians**

When law enforcement has determined that parents/guardians should be notified regarding the presence of a sex offender in the community, the Superintendent or district liaison shall collaborate with local law enforcement in order to determine an appropriate response. This response may include:

1. An article in a school or parent council newsletter notifying parents/guardians that law enforcement information about registered sex offenders is available at the local law enforcement agency headquarters and/or at the school office. This article shall encourage parents/guardians to contact local law enforcement and access the Department of Justice's (DOJ) Megan's Law Internet website for additional information.
2. A mailing, at law enforcement's expense, prepared by law enforcement, and printed on law enforcement letterhead and envelopes, notifying parents/guardians of the presence of registered sex offenders. This notification shall encourage parents/guardians to contact local law enforcement and access the DOJ's Megan's Law Internet website for additional information. ​​​​​​​
3. A mailing of a letter, at district expense, prepared by law enforcement and printed on law enforcement letterhead and envelopes, notifying parents/guardians of the presence of registered sex offenders. This notification shall encourage parents/guardians to contact local law enforcement and access the DOJ's Megan's Law Internet website for additional information.
