---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3515.4"
title: "Recovery For Property Loss Or Damage"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=PzBb9HDR1Y6jU9uLLhRGMg%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to create a safe and secure learning environment and to minimize acts of vandalism and damage to school property. To discourage such acts, the district shall seek reimbursement of damages, within the limitations specified in law, from any individual, or from the parent/guardian of any minor, who has committed theft or has willfully damaged district or employee property.

**Rewards**

The district's insurance carrier has implemented a support program for the prevention and reporting of property loss and/or damage. It includes a dedicated phone line, a reward system and publicity regarding acts of damage and/or loss.

When district or law enforcement officials have not been able to identify the person(s) responsible for the theft or vandalism of district property, the Board may authorize a reward for the identification and apprehension of the responsible person(s).

The Board authorizes the Superintendent or designee to offer a reward in any amount he/she deems appropriate, not exceeding $2,500. A reward in excess of $2,500 shall be authorized in advance by the Board.

The Superintendent or designee shall disburse the reward when the guilt of the person responsible for the act has been established by a criminal conviction or other appropriate judicial procedure.
