---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3515.5"
title: "Sex Offender Notification"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=bolufvAshi7XcYsIkplusreUw%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In order to protect students while they are traveling to and from school, or attending school or a school-related activity, the Board of Education believes it is important that the district respond appropriately when a law enforcement agency notifies the district about registered sex offenders who may reside or work within district boundaries.

The Superintendent or designee shall establish an ongoing relationship with law enforcement officials to coordinate the receipt and dissemination of such information. To the extent authorized by law, the Superintendent or designee also shall establish procedures for notifying appropriate staff as necessary.

To protect the district and its employees from liability, employees shall disseminate sex offender information in good faith, and only in the manner and to the extent authorized by the law enforcement agency.

The Superintendent or designee may annually notify parents/guardians of the availability of information about registered sex offenders on the Department of Justice's Internet website.

**Role of District Child Welfare and Attendance Department**

In accordance with law, Board policy and administrative regulation, the district child welfare & attendance department may disseminate information about registered sex offenders to the school community. The district child welfare and attendance department shall consult with local law enforcement and the Superintendent or designee prior to any such dissemination.

The district child welfare & attendance department shall maintain records of the means and dates of dissemination for five years. (Penal Code 290.45)
