---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3515.2"
title: "Disruptions"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=xHhwWsTDAL3hMvQCtfsdgA%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Penal Code 626.9 (the Gun Free School Zone Act) prohibits possession of a firearm on school grounds or within 1000 feet of school grounds, with specified exceptions (e.g., law enforcement). SB 707 (Ch. 766, Statutes of 2015) amended Penal Code 626.9 and 30310 to provide that the exception for a person holding a valid license to carry a concealed firearm applies only to the area within 1,000 feet of a school, but any such person shall not carry a firearm and/or ammunition onto school grounds unless he/she has written permission of the Superintendent or designee. See BP/E 3515.7 - Firearms on School Grounds for options for the Governing Board to authorize or not authorize the Superintendent or designee to grant such permission and, if so, criteria and conditions for him/her to grant permission.

The Board of Education is committed to providing a safe and orderly environment for students, staff, and others on district property or while engaged in school activities.

The Superintendent or designee shall remove any individual who, by his/her presence or action, disrupts or threatens to disrupt normal operations at a school campus or any other district facility, threatens the health or safety of anyone on district property, or causes or threatens to cause damage to district property or to any property on school grounds.

The Superintendent or designee shall establish a plan describing staff responsibilities and actions to be taken when an individual is causing or threatening to cause a disruption. The plan shall address, as appropriate, visitor registration procedures; campus security measures; evacuation procedures; lock-down procedures; possible responses to an active shooter situation; communications within the school and with parents/guardians, law enforcement, and the media in the event of an emergency; and crisis counseling or other assistance for students and staff after a disruption. In developing such a plan, the Superintendent or designee shall consult with law enforcement to create guidelines for law enforcement support and intervention when necessary.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide training to school staff on how to identify and respond to actions or situations that may constitute a disruption.

Any employee who believes that a disruption may occur shall immediately contact the principal. The principal or designee shall notify law enforcement in accordance with Education Code 48902 and 20 USC 7151 and in other situations, as appropriate.
