---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3516.2"
title: "Bomb Threats"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=aRIc7UhjV7ER8rIRvkWN6w%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Receiving Threats**

Any staff member receiving a telephoned bomb threat shall try to keep the caller on the line in order to gather information about the location and timing of the bomb and the person(s) responsible. To the extent possible, the staff member should also take note of the caller's gender, age, any distinctive features of voice or speech, and any background noises such as music, traffic, machinery, or voices.

If the bomb threat is received through the mail system or in writing, the staff member who receives it should handle the letter, note, or package as minimally as possible. If the threat is received through electronic means, such as email or text messaging, the staff member should not delete the message.

**Response Procedure**

The following procedure shall be followed when a bomb threat is received:

1. Any employee who receives a bomb threat shall immediately call 911 and also report the threat to the Superintendent or designee. If the threat is in writing, the employee shall place the message in an envelope and take note of where and by whom it was found.
2. Any student or employee who sees a suspicious package shall promptly notify the Superintendent or designee.
3. The Superintendent or designee shall immediately use fire drill signals and initiate standard evacuation procedures as specified in the emergency plan.
4. The Superintendent or designee shall turn off any two-way radio equipment which is located in a threatened building.

Law enforcement and/or fire department staff shall conduct the bomb search. No school staff shall search for or handle any explosive or incendiary device.

No one shall reenter the threatened building(s) until the Superintendent or designee declares that reentry is safe based on law enforcement and/or fire department clearance.

To the extent possible, the Superintendent or designee shall maintain communications with staff, parents/guardians, the Board of Education, other governmental agencies, and the media during the period of the incident.

Following the incident, the Superintendent or designee shall provide crisis counseling for students and/or staff as needed.

Any employee or student found to have made a bomb threat shall be subject to disciplinary procedures and/or criminal prosecution.
