---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3516.5"
title: "Emergency Schedules"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=Hzct51T8rCRM8oxm7hyslsh7w%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In order to provide for the safety of students and staff, the Board of Education authorizes the Superintendent or designee to close a school site, change the regular school day schedule, or take any necessary action when hazardous environmental or weather conditions or other emergencies warrant.

When an emergency condition causes a school closure, reduction in attendance, or change in schedule pursuant to Education Code 41422 or 46392, thereby preventing the district from complying with the minimum number of instructional days or minutes required by law, the Superintendent or designee shall complete and submit to the Superintendent of Public Instruction the necessary forms for obtaining approval of the days of the closure, reduction in attendance, or change in schedule. The Superintendent or designee shall submit other relevant district records as may be required.

The Superintendent or designee shall establish a system for informing students and parents/guardians when school buses are not operating as scheduled, the school day schedule is changed, or the school is closed. The district's notification system shall include, but is not limited to, notifying local television and radio stations, posting on district web site(s), sending email and text messages, and/or making telephone calls.

Whenever the school day schedule changes after students have arrived at school, the Superintendent or designee shall ensure that students are supervised in accordance with the procedures specified in the district's emergency and disaster preparedness plan.

The Superintendent or designee may provide a means to make up lost instructional time later during the year. Students and parents/guardians shall receive timely advanced notice of any resulting changes in the school calendar or school day schedule.
