---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3516.1"
title: "Fire Drills And Fires"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=sMrGmcHQEWA1TN8TewWSXQ%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Fire Drills**

The principal shall cause the fire alarm signal to be sounded at least once every month. (Education Code 32001)

The principal shall also hold fire drills at least once a month at the elementary level, four times every school year at the intermediate level, and not less than twice every school year at the secondary level. (Education Code 32001)

1. The principal shall notify staff as to the schedule for fire drills.
2. Whenever a fire drill is held, all students, teachers and other employees shall be directed to leave the building. (5 CCR 550 )
3. Teachers shall ascertain that no student remains in the building.
4. Teachers shall be prepared to select alternate exits and shall direct their classes to these exits whenever the designated escape route is blocked.
5. The principal or designee shall keep a record of each fire drill conducted and file a copy of this record with the office of the Superintendent or designee.

**Fires**

When a fire is discovered in any part of the school, the following actions shall be taken:

1. The principal or designee shall sound fire signals, unless the school and/or building is equipped with an automatic fire detection and alarm system. (Education Code 32001 )
2. The principal or designee shall call 911.
3. All persons shall be directed to leave the building and shall proceed outside to designated assembly areas.
4. Staff shall give students clear direction and supervision and help maintain a calm and orderly response.
5. In outside assembly areas, teachers shall take roll, report missing students, and provide assistance to any injured students.
6. In outside assembly areas, the principal, designee and/or each department head shall account for their staff, report missing staff, and provide assistance to any injured staff.
7. If the fire is extensive, students shall be taken to an alternate location for protective custody until parents/guardians can pick them up or until they can be safely transported to their homes.
