---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3541.1"
title: "Transportation For School-Related Trips"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "09/13/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "09/13/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=YE4qEnQrNeEVtBpH0IgY5Q%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The district may provide transportation for students, employees, and other individuals for field trips and other school-related trips approved according to Board policy and administrative regulation.

The Superintendent or designee shall determine the most appropriate and cost-effective mode of transportation for each approved trip. He/she may authorize the use of district vehicles, contract to provide transportation, or arrange transportation by the use of other vehicles.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that the district or contractor has sufficient liability insurance for transportation on school-related trips.

When district transportation is provided, students may be released from using district transportation only with the advance written permission of their parents/guardians.

School-related organizations requesting transportation shall be fully responsible for the costs of their trips unless funding has been approved by the Board of Education.

**Transportation by Private Vehicle**

The Superintendent or designee may authorize the transportation of students by private vehicle when the vehicle is driven by an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid California driver's license or, if he/she is a nonresident on active military duty in California, possesses a valid license from his/her state of residence. To be approved, a driver shall have a good driving record and possess at least the minimum insurance required by law. Any person providing transportation to district students in a private vehicle shall register with the district for such purposes.

Drivers shall receive safety and emergency instructions which shall be kept in their vehicle.

All student passengers shall submit permission slips signed by their parents/guardians. Teachers shall ensure that each driver has a copy of the permission slip for each student riding in his/her vehicle.

The number of passengers, including the driver, shall not exceed the capacity for which the vehicle was designed. Trucks may not transport more persons than can safely sit in the passenger compartment. The driver shall ensure that the manufacturer's recommendations for his/her vehicle are followed regarding the seating of children in seats equipped with airbags.

The driver or any other person shall not smoke or have in his/her immediate possession a lighted pipe, cigar, or cigarette containing tobacco or any other plant when there is a minor in the motor vehicle, whether the motor vehicle is in motion or at rest. (Health and Safety Code 118948)

**Passenger Restraint Systems**

All drivers shall wear safety belts and shall ensure that all passengers are properly secured in seat belts or child passenger restraint systems in accordance with law. (Vehicle Code 27315, 27360, 27360.5, 27363)

A child who is under age eight years shall be properly secured in a rear seat in an appropriate child passenger restraint system meeting federal safety standards, except under any of the following circumstances: (Vehicle Code 27360, 27363)

1. The child is four feet nine inches or taller, in which case a safety belt may be used.
2. Use of a child passenger restraint system would be impractical by reason of physical unfitness, medical condition, or size and an appropriate special needs child passenger restraint system is not available.
3. There is no rear seat, the rear seats are side-facing jump seats or rear-facing seats, the child passenger restraint system cannot be installed properly in the rear seat, all rear seats are already occupied by children under age eight years, or medical reasons necessitate that the child not ride in the rear seat.
4. The child is otherwise exempted by law.
