---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "3544.21"
title: "^Use Of Privately Owned Vehicles"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=hBpcvPHlYtdPyab62WVUaA%3D%3D&ptid=y1ZW0qRGjEafuplusqEjNeK2Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Student Conditions - High School Only:

1. Parent/guardian permission in advance with assurance that use of vehicle is voluntary without remuneration
  1. Parent is registered owner of vehicle, parent has legal lease agreement, or student has written permission from the registered owner to use vehicle.
  2. Parent will carry liability/medical coverage with the following limits: Property Damage$50,000 Medical$5,000 Bodily Injury $100,000-$300,000 Student must have fulfilled all driver's license requirements as specified by the State of California in order to be allowed to transport themselves or other students in privately owned vehicles. A student with a provisional driver's license cannot drive anyone but themselves.
  3. Student will not transport more than 9 passengers (including driver).
2. A certificated person shall authorize student participation.
3. Students must sign out from school prior to leaving or have an approved pass to leave campus.
4. Approved activities including, but not limited to:
  1. Work Experience
  2. Regional Occupation Program (ROP)
  3. Journalism and Yearbook
  4. Child Care Program
  5. Government/School Involvement Programs
  6. Community Services
  7. Athletics
  8. Peer Tutoring/Counseling
  9. College Coursework

Adult Conditions:

1. Adult is registered owner of the vehicle, has a legal lease agreement or has written permission from the registered owner to use the vehicle.
2. Adult must have a valid driving license.
3. Adult must have a clean driving record in that they have never been convicted of drunk driving, driving under the influence of drugs, or of reckless driving.
4. Adult will carry liability/medical coverage on vehicle with the following limits: Property Damage$50,000 Medical$5,000 Bodily Injury$100,000-$300,000
5. Adult will not transport more than 9 passengers (including driver).
6. The Santa Rosa City School Administrative Regulation 3545.8(a) form shall be completed and submitted to the building principal or designee for approval.

Reference:

See also applicable rules in Board Policy and Administrative Regulation 6153
