---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "1210.1"
title: "^Citizens' Oversight Committee"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "05/05/2002"
date_last_reviewed: "05/05/2002"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=hsBMxfsUCYwufMj4QqrKSw%3D%3D&ptid=zxfvZYmcKkpluslhKHzD4ftFA%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Membership - Appointment, Qualifications, and Term of Office**

1. Membership on the Citizens' Oversight Committee The committee must consist of at least seven members, though the Board of Education may appoint additional members as it sees fit, and there is no upper limit on the size of the committee. The committee must include members who represent the first five of the following:
  1. (Legal Requirement) One member who is active in a business organization representing the business community in the district
  2. (Legal Requirement) One member who is active in a senior citizens' organization
  3. (Legal Requirement) One member who is active in a bona fide taxpayers' organization
  4. (Legal Requirement) One member who is the parent or guardian of a child enrolled in the district (The Board District Facilities Advisory Subcommittee recommends two members in this category, one member from an elementary school and one member from a secondary school, from balanced geographic locations.)
  5. (Legal Requirement) One member who is both a parent/guardian of a child enrolled in the district and active in a parent-teacher organization, such as the Parent Teacher Association or School Site Council. (The Board District Facilities Advisory Subcommittee recommends four members in this category, two members from the elementary schools and two members from the secondary schools, from balanced geographic locations.)
  6. (Board Discretion) Other members at the discretion of the Board.
  7. (Legal Requirement) The following categories of people are prohibited from serving on the committee: district employee, vendor, contractor, or consultant.
2. The Board will appoint the members of the Citizens' Oversight Committee through the following process:
  1. (Board Discretion) Vacancies for membership on the committee shall be advertised appropriately.
  2. (Board Discretion) The Board District Facilities Advisory Subcommittee and the Superintendent or designee will review the applications received and will make recommendations to the full Board.
  3. (Board Discretion) The Board will review the recommendations and, in a duly noticed public session, the Board will make a final decision regarding appointments.
3. Term (Legal Requirement) Members of the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall serve without compensation for a term of no more than two years and for no more than two consecutive terms. (Board Discretion) Lots will be drawn in the first year so that one half of the group will serve a one-year term in their first cycle. This will allow for staggered terms within the committee and greater continuity of information shared within the membership.
4. Removal From Membership (Board Discretion) Members of the Citizens' Oversight Committee serve at the pleasure of the Board and may be removed at the sole discretion of the Board. Such items as attendance at meetings will be considered by the Board in making a determination for removal.
5. Process for Replacement (Board Discretion) If mid-term vacancies occur, the process for replacement shall generally follow the same process as for regular appointments. The Superintendent or designee, with the concurrence of the Board, may adjust the processes as may be reasonably necessary for the particular circumstances.

**Authority**

1. Citizens' Oversight Committee Role
  1. (Legal Requirement) The role of the Oversight Committee shall be as set forth in Education Code 15264 as that section now exists or may heretofore be amended. Specific duties shall be to inform the public concerning the district's expenditure of revenues received from the sale of general obligation bonds authorized by the voters on March 5, 2002.
  2. (Legal Requirement) To carry out its role, the Citizens' Oversight Committee may:
    1. Receive and review copies of the annual independent performance audit conducted to ensure that the bond revenue has been expended only on the specific projects listed in the bond proposition
    2. Receive and review copies of the annual independent financial audit of the bond revenues and expenditures
    3. Inspect district facilities and grounds to ensure that the bond revenues are expended in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Section 1 or Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
    4. Receive and review copies of deferred maintenance proposals or plans developed by the district
    5. Review efforts by the district to maximize bond revenues by implementing various cost saving measures.
  3. (Legal Requirement) The Citizens' Oversight Committee must report on its activities at least once a year.
2. Legal Capacity of the Citizens' Oversight Committee
  1. (Legal Requirement) The Citizens' Oversight Committee is the citizens' advisory committee established pursuant to Education Code 15264 , et seq.
  2. (Legal Requirement) The Citizens' Oversight Committee legal authority shall be as set forth in Education Code 15264 , et seq.
3. Information Provided to Committee Members (Legal Requirement) Information provided by staff to one member of the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall be provided to all members of the Citizens' Oversight Committee, in accordance with the directions of the district Superintendent or designee.
4. Authority of Individual Committee Members
  1. (Legal Requirement) The Chair of the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall have the authority to direct appropriate district staff as necessary to comply with public meeting laws.
  2. (Legal Requirement) No individual committee member shall have the authority to direct district staff.
5. Selection of Chair
  1. (Board Discretion) The Board shall designate the initial chair for the Citizens' Oversight Committee. The initial designation shall be effective through June 30, 2003.
  2. (Board Discretion) Thereafter, the chair for the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall be selected annually by the Board in June of each year, or as vacancies may occur. The chair shall serve at the pleasure of the committee.

**Procedures for Citizens' Oversight Committee Meetings and Support**

1. District staffing support of the committee
  1. (Legal Requirement) Reasonable staff support shall be provided by the district to the Citizens' Oversight Committee without charge to bond funds.
  2. (Board Discretion) The management-level staff support person for the Citizens' Oversight Committee will report to the Superintendent or designee.
  3. (Board Discretion) Staff support levels are within the discretion of the Superintendent or designee, but the Citizens' Oversight Committee may make recommendations regarding its staff support needs.
  4. (Board Discretion) The Superintendent or designee should seek input from individual committee members regarding the evaluation of staff support members' work as related to Citizens' Oversight Committee activities.
  5. (Legal Requirement) The Citizens' Oversight Committee will meet no less than two times per year.
2. Legal Counsel (Legal Requirement) The Chair of the Citizens' Oversight Committee may seek District legal counsel as necessary through the Superintendent or designee. The Citizens' Oversight Committee does not have a separate legal capacity from the district and the committee may not obtain other legal counsel without authorization from the Superintendent or designee in consultation with the Board of Education.
3. Defense and Indemnity (Legal Requirement) In accordance with and subject to the terms of the Tort Claims Act (Government Code 810 - 996.4 ) the district has a duty to defend and indemnify volunteers acting within the course and scope of their volunteer duties. In the event of litigation naming the Citizens' Oversight Committee, or the individual members, the Board shall as required by law provide counsel for the Citizens' Oversight Committee, and shall promptly determine whether to provide counsel for individual members.

**Conduct of Meetings**

1. Quorum (Legal Requirement) A quorum of the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall consist of 50 percent plus one member of the Citizens' Oversight Committee.
2. Public Meetings
  1. (Legal Requirement) The Citizens' Oversight Committee is subject to the open meeting laws of the State of California.
  2. (Legal Requirement) Notices and agendas regarding the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall be posted in the same locations as the notices and agendas regarding the Board meetings.
  3. (Legal Requirement) The Superintendent or designee will provide each member of the committee a current copy of the open meeting laws of the State of California.
3. Public Records (Legal Requirement) Minutes of the proceedings of the Citizens' Oversight Committee and all documents received and reports issued shall be a matter of public record.
4. (Legal Requirement) Except as otherwise provided by its by-laws or applicable law the Citizens' Oversight Committee shall conduct meetings in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, as applicable to small committees.
