---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "1312.3-E PDF(1)"
title: "Uniform Complaint Procedures"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "11/16/2020"
date_last_reviewed: "11/16/2020"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=4INtplusZ5Q7Q5mplusIeplusCQ9qfA%3D%3D&ptid=zxfvZYmcKkpluslhKHzD4ftFA%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Santa Rosa City Schools
Exhibit
Uniform Complaint Procedures
E 1312.3
Community Relations
Exhibit 1
NOTICE TO PARENTS/GUARDIANS, STUDENTS, AND TEACHERS: PRESCHOOL
COMPLAINT RIGHTS
Parents/Guardians, Students, and Teachers:
Pursuant to Education Code 8235.5, you are hereby notified that any California State Preschool
Program that is exempt from licensure must have:
1. Outdoor shade that is safe and in good repair
2. Drinking water that is accessible and readily available throughout the day
3. Safe and sanitary restroom facilities with one toilet and handwashing fixture for every 15
children
4. Restroom facilities that are available only for preschoolers and kindergartners
5. Visual supervision of children at all times
6. Indoor and outdoor space that is properly contained or fenced and provides sufficient
space for the number of children using the space at any given time
7. Playground equipment that is safe, in good repair, and age appropriate
If you choose to file a complaint alleging that any of the above conditions is not being met, your
complaint will be addressed through the district's uniform complaint procedures as required by
law. A complaint form may be obtained at the school office or district office, or downloaded
from the school or district web site. You may also download a copy of the California Department
of Education complaint form from the following web site: http://www.cde.ca.gov/re/cp/uc.
However, a complaint need not be filed using either the district's complaint form or the
complaint form from the California Department of Education.
___________________________________________________________________
Exhibit 2

PRESCHOOL COMPLAINT FORM:
UNIFORM COMPLAINT PROCEDURES
Education Code 8235.5 requires that the district's uniform complaint procedures be used for the
filing of complaints concerning noncompliance with health and safety standards for
license-exempt California State Preschool Programs. The complaint and response are public
documents as provided by law. Complaints may be filed anonymously. However, if you wish to
receive a response to your complaint, you must provide the contact information below.
Response requested? __Yes __ No
Contact information: (if response is requested)
Name: ___ _________________________________________________________________
Address: __________________________________________________________________
Phone number: Day: ___________________ Evening:
____________________________
E-mail address, if any: _______ ________________________________________________
Date problem was observed: __________________________________________________
Location of the problem that is the subject of this complaint:
School name/address: _________________________________________ _______________
Room number/name of room/location of facility: __________________________________
Only the following issues may be the subject of this complaint process. If you wish to complain
about an issue not specified below, please contact the school or district for the appropriate
district complaint procedure.
Specific issue(s) of the complaint: (Please check all that apply. A complaint may contain more
than one allegation.)
__ The preschool does not have outdoor shade that is safe and in good repair.
__ Drinking water is not accessible and/or readily available throughout the day.
__ The preschool does not provide safe and sanitary restroom facilities with one toilet and
handwashing fixture for every 15 children.
__ Restroom facilities are not available only for preschoolers and kindergartners.
__ The preschool program does not provide visual supervision of children at all times.
__ Indoor or outdoor space is not properly contained or fenced or does not provide sufficient
space for the number of children using the space at any given time.
__ Playground equipment is not safe, in good repair, or age appropriate.

Please describe the issue of your complaint in detail. You may attach additional pages and
include as much text as necessary to fully describe the situation.
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
Please file this complaint at the following location:
______________________________________________
(preschool administrator or designee)
______________________________________________
(address)
Please provide a signature below. If you wish to remain anonymous, a signature is not required.
However, all complaints, even anonymous ones, should be dated.
_______________________________________
_______________________
(Signature)
(Date)
Policy SANTA ROSA CITY SCHOOLS
adopted: November 16, 2020 Santa Rosa, California
