---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "1312.2"
title: "Complaints Concerning Instructional Materials"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "06/28/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "06/28/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=cBZ4Lq4FwgAk1Xc3UCQwjg%3D%3D&ptid=zxfvZYmcKkpluslhKHzD4ftFA%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education uses a comprehensive process to adopt district instructional materials that is based on selection criteria established by law and Board policy and includes opportunities for the involvement of parents/guardians and community members. Complaints concerning the content or use of instructional materials, including textbooks, supplementary instructional materials, library materials, or other instructional materials and equipment, shall be properly and fairly considered using established complaint procedures.

Parents/guardians are encouraged to discuss any concerns regarding instructional materials with their child's teacher and/or the school principal. If the situation remains unresolved, a complaint may be filed using the process specified in the administrative regulation.

The district shall accept complaints concerning instructional materials only from staff, district residents, or the parents/guardians of children enrolled in a district school.

When deliberating upon challenged materials, the Superintendent and/or review committee shall consider the educational philosophy of the district, the professional opinions of teachers of the subject and of other competent authorities, reviews of the materials by reputable bodies, the teacher's stated objectives in using the materials, community standards, and the objections of the complainant.

Complainants are encouraged to accept the Superintendent's or review committee's decision. However, if the complainant finds that decision unsatisfactory, he/she may appeal the decision to the Board.

The district's decision shall be based on educational suitability of the materials and the criteria established in Board policy and administrative regulation.

When any challenged instructional material is reviewed by the district, it shall not be subject to further reconsideration for 12 months, unless the Superintendent determines that reconsideration is warranted.

Complaints related to sufficiency of textbooks or instructional materials shall be resolved pursuant to the district's Williams uniform complaint procedure at AR 1312.4.
