---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "1312.4-E PDF(1)"
title: "Williams Uniform Complaint Procedures"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "06/28/2017"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=XQySbadaCnWhmOkMti72rg%3D%3D&ptid=zxfvZYmcKkpluslhKHzD4ftFA%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Exhibit 1NOTICE TO PARENTS/GUARDIANS, STUDENTS, AND TEACHERS:
COMPLAINT RIGHTS
Parents/Guardians, Students, and Teachers:
Pursuant to Education Code
35186
, you are hereby notified that:
1. There should be sufficient textbooks and instructional materials. That means each student, including
an English learner, must have a textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and to take
home.
2. School facilities must be clean, safe, and maintained in good repair.
3. There should be no teacher vacancies or misassignments.
There should be a teacher assigned to each
class and not a series of substitutes or other temporary teachers.
The teacher should have the proper
credential to teach the class, including the certification required to teach English learners, if present.
Misassignment means the placement of a certificated employee in a teaching or services position for
which the employee does not hold a legally recognized certificate or credential or the placement of a
certificated employee in a teaching or services position that the employee is not otherwise authorized
by statute to hold.
Teacher vacancy means a position to which a single designated certificated employee has not been
assigned at the beginning of the year for an entire year or, if the position is for a one-semester course, a
position to which a single designated certificated employee has not been assigned at the beginning of a
semester for an entire semester.
4. A complaint form may be obtained at the school office or district office, or downloaded from the
school or district web site.
You may also download a copy of the California Department of Education
complaint form from the following web site:
http://www.cde.ca.gov/re/cp/uc.
However, a complaint
need not be filed using either the district's complaint form or the complaint form from the California
Department of Education.
