---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "1312.2-E PDF(1)"
title: "Complaints Concerning Instructional Materials"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "11/05/2008"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=ZRbRCUtcn7gKdeubif8NslshQ%3D%3D&ptid=zxfvZYmcKkpluslhKHzD4ftFA%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION OFINSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
This form is for use only by district employees, district residents, or parents/guardians of children
enrolled in a district school to challenge the content or use of an instructional material.
For complaints
regarding sufficiency of instructional materials, please use the Williams Uniform Complaint Procedure
complaint form.
Date:
Name of person filing complaint:________________________________________________
Anonymous complaints will not be accepted.
Group represented (if any):____________________________________________________
Phone:__________________________ E-mail address, if any:________________________
Address:___________________________________________________________________
Material Being Challenged:
Title:
Author:
Publisher:
Date of Edition:
Name of school/classroom material was used: _____________________________________
1. Please specifically state the nature of your concern or objection and identify your objection by page,
tape sequence, video frame, or words, as appropriate.
You may use additional pages if necessary.
2. Did you read/view the entire selection?
3. For what age group would you recommend this material?
4. If not, what percentage did you read/view, or what parts?
5. What do you feel might be the result if a student reads/views this material?
6. What would you like the school to do about this material?
__ Do not assign it to my child
__ Withdraw it from all students
__ Reconsider it
Signature of complainant

For District Use:
Request received by:
Date:
Title:______________________________________________________________________
Action taken:
Date:
