---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "0420.41-E PDF(1)"
title: "Charter School Oversight"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "01/10/2019"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=XgVS4slshhlMQB7jFRgU1xKGQ%3D%3D&ptid=amIgTZiB9plushNjl6WXhfiOQ%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Requirements For Charter SchoolsCharter schools shall be subject to the terms of their charters, any memorandum of understanding withtheir chartering authority, and other legal requirements that are expressly applicable to charter schools,
including, but not limited to, requirements that each charter school:
1. Be nonsectarian in its programs, admission policies, employment practices, and all other operations
(Education Code
47605
)
2. Not discriminate against any student on the basis of the characteristics listed in Education Code
220
(Education Code
47605
)
3. Not charge tuition
(Education Code
47605
)
4. Not charge student fees for any activity that is an integral component of the educational program,
except as authorized by those Education Code provisions that explicitly apply to charter schools
5. Adhere to all laws establishing the minimum age for public school attendance (Education Code
47610
)
6. Serve students who are California residents and who, if over 19 years of age, are continuously
enrolled in a public school and making "satisfactory progress" toward a high school diploma as defined
in 5 CCR
11965
(Education Code
47612
)
7. Serve students with disabilities in the same manner as such students are served in other district
schools
(Education Code
47646
,
56145
)
8. Admit all students who wish to attend the school, according to the following criteria and procedures:
a. Admission to the charter school shall not be determined according to the student's or
parent/guardian's place of residence within the state, except that any existing public school converting
partially or entirely to a charter school shall adopt and maintain a policy giving admission preference
to students who reside within the school's former attendance area.
(Education Code
47605
)
If a charter school will be physically located in a public elementary school attendance area in which 50
percent or more of the student enrollment is eligible for free or reduced-price meals, it may also
establish an admission preference for students who are currently enrolled in the public elementary
school and for students who reside in the public school attendance area.
(Education Code
47605.3
)
b. If the number of students who wish to attend the charter school exceeds the school's capacity,
attendance shall be determined by a public random drawing, with preference extended to students
currently attending the charter school and students who reside in the district, except as provided for in
Education Code
47614.5
.
(Education Code
47605
)
c. Other admission preferences may be permitted by the Board of Education of the district on an
individual school basis consistent with law.
(Education Code
47605
)
9. Immediately enroll a homeless student, except where such enrollment would conflict with Education
Code
47605
(d)
(Education Code
48850
; 42 USC
11431
-
11435
)
10. Comply with the requirements of Education Code
48850
-
48859
regarding the enrollment and

placement of foster youth
(Education Code
48853.5
,
48859
)
11. If the school offers a kindergarten program:
(Education Code
48000
)
a. Offer a transitional kindergarten (TK) program to students whose fifth birthday is from September 2
through December 2
b. Ensure that any credentialed teacher first assigned to teach a TK class after July 1, 2015 meets the
qualifications specified in Education Code
48000
by August 1, 2020
12. Require its teachers to hold a certificate, permit, or other document issued by the Commission on
Teacher Credentialing (CTC) equivalent to that which a teacher in other public schools would be
required to hold
(Education Code
47605
)
13. Provide annual training on child abuse and neglect reporting requirements to employees and
persons working on the school's behalf who are mandated reporters, within the first six weeks of each
school year or within six weeks of employment
(Education Code
44691
)
14. Not hire any person who has been convicted of a violent or serious felony except as otherwise
provided by law, and, if the school contracts with an entity for specified services, verify that any
employee of that entity who will have contact with students has had a criminal background check
(Education Code
44830.1
,
45122.1
,
45125.1
)
15. Report to the CTC any change in a certificated employee's employment status (dismissal,
nonreelection, resignation, suspension, unpaid administrative leave for more than 10 days, retirement,
or other decision not to employ or reemploy) as a result of an allegation of misconduct or while an
allegation of misconduct is pending (Education Code
44030.5
)
16. Meet the requirements of Education Code
47611
regarding the State Teachers' Retirement System
(Education Code
47610
)
17. Meet the requirements of Government Code
3540
-
3549.3
related to collective bargaining in public
education employment
(Education Code
47611.5
)
18. If the school serves students in grades 7-12, adopt a policy on suicide prevention, intervention, and
postvention with specified components
(Education Code
215
)
19. If the school serves students in grade 9, adopt a fair, objective, and transparent mathematics
placement policy with specified components
(Education Code
51224.7
)
20. Meet all statewide standards and conduct any statewide assessments applicable to noncharter
public schools
(Education Code
47605
,
47612.5
,
60605
)
21. Grant a high school diploma to any student who completed grade 12 in the 2003-04 through 2014-
15 school year and met all applicable graduation requirements other than the passage of the high
school exit examination
(Education Code
51413
)
22. Offer at least the number of instructional minutes required by law for the grade levels provided by
the charter school
(Education Code
47612.5
)
23. If the school provides independent study, meet the requirements of Education Code

51745
-
51749.3
, except that the school may be allowed to offer courses required for graduation solely
through independent study as an exception to Education Code
51745
(e)
(Education Code
47612.5
,
51747.3
; 5 CCR
11705
)
24. Identify and report to the Superintendent of Public Instruction (SPI) any portion of its average daily
attendance that is generated through nonclassroom-based instruction, including, but not limited to,
independent study, home study, work study, and distance and computer-based education
(Education
Code
47612.5
,
47634.2
; 5 CCR
11963.2
)
25. If the school offers competitive athletics, annually post on the school's web site or on the web site
of the charter operator the total enrollment of the school classified by gender, the number of students
who participate in competitive athletics classified by gender, and the number of boys' and girls' teams
classified by sport and by competition level
(Education Code
221.9
)
26. If the school offers an athletic program, annually provide information sheets about
concussions/head injuries and sudden cardiac arrest to athletes and their parents/guardians, which must
be signed and returned to the school before the athlete initiates practice or competition. In the event
that an athlete is suspected of sustaining a concussion or head injury, passes out, or faints during or
immediately after participation in an athletic activity, he/she shall be immediately removed from the
activity for the remainder of the day and shall not be permitted to return to the activity until he/she is
evaluated by a licensed health care provider and receives written clearance to do so.
(Education Code
33479
-
33479.5
,
49475
)
27. On a regular basis, consult with parents/guardians and teachers regarding the school's educational
programs
(Education Code
47605
)
28. Notify parents/guardians of applicant students and currently enrolled students that parental
involvement is not a requirement for acceptance to, or continued enrollment at, the charter school
(Education Code
47605
)
29. Provide students the right to exercise freedom of speech and of the press including, but not limited
to, the use of bulletin boards; the distribution of printed materials or petitions; the wearing of buttons,
badges, and other insignia; and the right of expression in official publications
(Education Code
48907
,
48950
)
30. Adopt policy that is consistent with the model policy developed by the California Attorney General
addressing the school's response to immigration enforcement, notify parents/guardians of their
children's right to a free public education regardless of immigration status or religious beliefs, prohibit
the collection of information or documents regarding the immigration status of students or their family
members, and fulfill other requirements of Education Code
234.7
31. Not collect or solicit social security numbers or the last four digits of social security numbers from
students or their parents/guardians unless otherwise required to do so by state or federal law
(Education Code
49076.7
)
32. Maintain written contemporaneous records that document all student attendance and make these
records available for audit and inspection
(Education Code
47612.5
)
33. If a student subject to compulsory full-time education is expelled or leaves the charter school
without graduating or completing the school year for any reason, notify the Superintendent of the

school district of the student's last known address within 30 days and, upon request, provide that
district with a copy of the student's cumulative record, including a transcript of grades or report card,
and health information
(Education Code
47605
)
34. If the school serves high school students, submit to the Student Aid Commission, for use in the Cal
Grant program, the grade point average (GPA) of all students in grade 12 and verification of high
school graduation or its equivalent for students who graduated in the prior academic year. However,
such information shall not be submitted when students opt out or are permitted by the rules of the
Student Aid Commission to provide test scores in lieu of the GPA.
(Education Code
69432.9
,
69432.92
)
35. Develop a transportation safety plan that includes procedures to ensure that a student is not left
unattended on a school bus, student activity bus, or child care motor vehicle and procedures and
standards for designating an adult chaperone, other than the driver, to accompany students on a school
activity bus (Education Code
39831.3
)
36. Comply with the California Building Standards Code as adopted and enforced by the local building
enforcement agency with jurisdiction over the area in which the charter school is located, unless the
charter school facility meets either of the following conditions:
(Education Code
47610
,
47610.5
)
a. The facility complies with the Field Act pursuant to Education Code
17280
-
17317
and
17365
-
17374
.
b. The facility is exclusively owned or controlled by an entity that is not subject to the California
Building Standards Code, including, but not limited to, the federal government.
37. Provide reasonable accommodations on campus to a lactating student to express breast milk,
breastfeed an infant child, or address other needs related to breastfeeding (Education Code
222
)
38. Ensure the availability and proper use of emergency epinephrine auto-injectors by:
(Education
Code
49414
)
a. Providing school nurses or other voluntary, trained personnel with at least one regular and one junior
device for elementary schools and, for secondary schools, one regular device if there are no students
who require a junior device
b. Distributing a notice at least once per school year to all staff requesting volunteers and describing
the training that volunteers will receive
c. Providing defense and indemnification to volunteers for any and all civil liability from such
administration
39. If the school chooses to make an opioid antagonist available to persons suffering, or reasonably
believed to be suffering, from an opioid overdose, comply with the requirements of Education Code
49414.3
, including, but not limited to, providing training to personnel who volunteer to administer the
opioid antagonist
40. If the school participates in the National School Lunch and/or Breakfast program, not promote any
food or beverage during the school day that does not comply with state nutritional standards pursuant
to Education Code
49430
-
49434
, and not participate in a corporate incentive program that offers free
or discounted non-nutritious foods or beverages as rewards for students who reach certain academic

goals
(Education Code
49431.9
)
41. If the school participates in the National School Lunch and/or Breakfast program, notify
parents/guardians within 10 days of their child's meal account reaching a negative balance; ensure that
a student with unpaid school meal fees is not shamed, treated differently, or served a meal that differs
from other students; and prohibit student discipline from resulting in the denial or delay of a
nutritionally adequate meal
(Education Code
49557.5
)
42. If the school participates in the National School Lunch and/or Breakfast program and is a very high
poverty school, as defined, apply to the California Department of Education (CDE) to provide lunch
and/or breakfast free of charge to all students under a federal universal service provision
(Education
Code
49564
)
43. Promptly respond to all reasonable inquiries from the district, the county office of education, or the
SPI, including, but not limited to, inquiries regarding the school's financial records
(Education Code
47604.3
)
44. Annually prepare and submit financial reports to the district Board of Education and the County
Superintendent of Schools in accordance with the following reporting cycle:
a. By July 1, a preliminary budget for the current fiscal year. For a charter school in its first year of
operation, financial statements submitted with the charter petition pursuant to Education Code
47605
(g) will satisfy this requirement.
(Education Code
47604.33
)
b. By July 1, an update of the school's goals and the actions to achieve those goals as identified in the
charter, developed using the local control and accountability plan template adopted by the State Board
of Education. This report shall include a review of the progress toward the goals, an assessment of the
effectiveness of the specific actions toward achieving the goals, a description of changes the school
will make to the specific actions as a result of the review and assessment, and a listing and description
of expenditures for the fiscal year implementing the specific actions.
(Education Code
47604.33
,
47606.5
,
52064
)
When conducting this review, the governing body of the school may consider qualitative information
including, but not limited to, findings that result from any school quality reviews conducted pursuant to
Education Code
52052
or any other reviews. To the extent practicable, data shall be reported in a
manner consistent with how information is reported on a school accountability report card. The update
shall be developed in consultation with teachers, principals, administrators, other school personnel,
parents/guardians and students.
(Education Code
47606.5
)
c. By December 15, an interim financial report for the current fiscal year reflecting changes through
October 31.
(Education Code
47604.33
)
d. By March 15, a second interim financial report for the current fiscal year reflecting changes through
January 31.
(Education Code
47604.33
)
e. By September 15, a final unaudited report for the full prior year.
The report submitted to the Board
shall include an annual statement of all the charter school's receipts and expenditures for the preceding
fiscal year.
(Education Code
42100
,
47604.33
)
f. By December 15, a copy of the charter school's annual, independent financial audit report for the

preceding fiscal year, unless the charter school's audit is encompassed in the district's audit. The audit
report shall also be submitted to the State Controller and the California Department of Education.
(Education Code
47605
)
45. Post specified information related to the prohibition against discrimination under Title IX of the
Education Amendments of 1972 in a prominent and conspicuous location on the school web site or on
the web site of the charter operator
(Education Code
221.61
)
46. If a direct-funded charter school, adopt and implement uniform complaint procedures to resolve
complaints of unlawful discrimination or alleged violation of a state or federal law or regulation
governing educational programs, in accordance with 5 CCR
4600
-
4670
(5 CCR
4600
)
47. Annually adopt a school accountability report card
(Education Code
47612
; California
Constitution, Article 16, Section 8.5)
In addition, charter schools shall comply with the state and federal constitutions, applicable federal
laws, and state laws that apply to governmental agencies in general, such as the Brown Act
requirements in Government Code
54950
-
54963
and the conflict of interest laws in Government Code
1090
-
1099
and
87100
-
91014
.
