---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "7113.2"
title: "^Field Lighting Installation"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=TeJbLV6UKZ28XARVvHKwaw%3D%3D&ptid=p6cSCZdPToF4D3nrlpluslRnw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In addition to observing the general guidelines set forth in Board policy 7110, the criteria listed herein shall govern the installation of athletic field lights at district schools.

1. Funding All costs associated with the acquisition, installation and operation of field lights, including regulatory and environmental approvals, shall be funded by private sources.
2. Project Management All aspects of the approval, acquisition, installation and operation of field lights shall be conducted under the auspices of the district administration in accordance with accepted district practices. Costs associated with these activities will be reimbursed by private sources in accordance with #1 above.
3. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)

All field lighting proposals shall be subject to an appropriate environmental review in accordance with CEQA guidelines. The district shall act as lead agency for such review. The Board of Education shall determine the appropriate CEQA process to be followed. Costs associated with the appropriate CEQA process shall be borne by private sources in accordance with #1 above.

The Board reserves the right to deny a proposed project upon completion of the CEQA process, particularly in cases where environmental impacts have been identified but no satisfactory methods of mitigation have been determined.
