---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "7310.12"
title: "^Corporate Sponsorship And Naming Rights"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=ws5JNhBbIrhUjmfYgtLF9w%3D%3D&ptid=p6cSCZdPToF4D3nrlpluslRnw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that private corporate sponsorship of educational programs and activities may support and enhance curricular and co-curricular experiences for students. For that reason, the district may enter into corporate sponsorship agreements under the appropriate conditions.

Corporate sponsorship must be seen as an enhancement to the education of students. Corporate sponsorship should not be relied upon for ongoing program costs, or as the major source of funds for a specific educational program or activity.

All potential corporate sponsorships must be submitted in a comprehensive written proposal to the Superintendent or designee. The Superintendent, or designee, is responsible for gathering all information and documentation related to any potential commercial or promotional sponsorship and ensuring that all proposals are reviewed by business and legal representatives of the district before presenting that information to the Board. The Board shall review every proposal for corporate sponsorship and retains the sole right to accept or reject any corporate, commercial or promotional sponsorship proposal.

Proposals for commercial or promotional sponsorship shall include the following:

1. A detailed outline of the proposed sponsorship activity, including how the sponsorship will increase student participation in educational or extra-curricular activities, or how students would otherwise benefit from the sponsorship.
2. A guarantee of the monetary value to be received by the district as a result of the sponsorship.
3. A statement defining the duration of the sponsorship.
4. A statement clearly defining the specific roles, expectations, responsibilities and rights of the corporate sponsor and the district, including whether the corporate sponsor intends to advertise in connection to the sponsorship and the extent to which district facilities and students will be used as part of that advertising.
5. A statement clearly defining whether the sponsorship creates any exclusive rights for the sponsor or district, and if such rights are created, the extent of those rights. If no exclusive rights are created, the sponsorship will not limit the district in the use of sponsored or non-sponsored materials.
6. A statement that the Board and the Superintendent, or designee, must approve the identification of the district as a cosponsor in all publicity materials and retain the exclusive right to authorize use of its name, logo, school facilities, or other similar information in all media forms.
7. A statement that the sponsor will comply with all state and federal laws and regulations, local ordinances, Board policies and regulations, and all pre-existing district contracts.
8. A statement disclosing any relationship between the sponsor, any of its employees or major stockholders, and any student, district employee, the Superintendent or any member of the Board.
9. A statement that participation of students and district employees in activities established pursuant to corporate sponsorships will be voluntary and that no sponsorship will exploit students, district employees or members of the Board. Market research or other opinion survey requirement as a condition of corporate sponsorship will be strictly prohibited.
10. A statement indicating that no image of students or district employees will be used by the sponsor without prior knowledge and written consent of the student, their parent or guardian if a minor, or district employee.
11. A statement outlining termination rights, including the sole right of the Board to terminate the sponsorship without prior notification or penalty, if it is determined by the Board that the sponsorship is negatively impacting students' education or educational environment.
12. A statement that sponsors are not allowed to collect information about students or district employees, such as name, address, phone numbers, or e-mail addresses as a result of any activity related to the sponsorship.
13. A statement that any curricular materials to be used in sponsored programs must be developed by or in conjunction with appropriately credentialed district employees and approved by the Board. All curricular materials developed pursuant to the sponsorship will remain the property of Santa Rosa City Schools. The Board shall retain the discretion on how or whether to integrate commercially provided material or curriculum into program courses.

The Superintendent, or designee, shall conduct an annual review of corporate sponsorships to ensure that they continue to meet the educational goals and philosophies of the Board, and are not in violation of any state and federal laws and regulations, local ordinances, Board policies and regulations, or any pre-existing district contracts.
