---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "7310.12"
title: "^Corporate Sponsorship And Naming Rights"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=slshZ9uDVKHcWeJrEnf8oZslshRA%3D%3D&ptid=p6cSCZdPToF4D3nrlpluslRnw%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes and appreciates the financial support received from federal and State funding sources and from local taxpayers. The Board desires to expand revenue sources for the financial needs of the school district and encourages financial support to the school district from non-school sponsored organizations. A "corporate sponsor", for the purposes of this policy, is a non-school sponsored person and/or organization that offers to provide support to the school district through financial or material means in exchange for recognition and/or acknowledgement.

The Board believes school-community relationships based on sound principles and community input can contribute to maintaining and improving high quality education programs and facilities. Corporate sponsorship activities that are consistent with the goals and objectives of the school district may be evaluated and recommended to the Board for implementation within the district by the Superintendent or designee. This policy shall be administered to protect the school district's name, pupils, and/or staff against exploitation.

**Corporate Sponsorship Proposals**

A potential corporate sponsor must submit a written corporate sponsorship proposal to the Superintendent or designee. An organization's sponsorship activity may include, but is not limited to, financial support to a school curricular or co-curricular activity or program, a school facility improvement, and/or a school assembly program. No pupil or staff member will be required to participate in surveys and/or focus groups as a condition of a corporate sponsorship.

In appreciation for such sponsorship, the school district will appropriately acknowledge the organization's contribution to the school district. The acknowledgment may include a public address announcement at an activity, signage at the activity or on school grounds, or through other reasonable means. Posting of signs identifying the sponsor shall not be considered the district's endorsement of the product or service of a company.

The Board reserves the right to terminate the sponsorship at any time. Therefore, all corporate sponsorship proposals must include provisions for such termination, which may include the return of any funding, goods, and/or services provided to the district. The corporate sponsorship proposal shall include the specific sponsorship activity, the proposed time period/duration of the activity, the requested acknowledgement, and the terms of termination in the event the Board decides to terminate such corporate sponsorship. The return of any benefits provided to the district as a result of the Board's termination will be limited to and in accordance with the provisions of the written corporate sponsorship proposal approved by the Board.

Sponsorship Restrictions

Proposals for corporate or other private sponsorship will not be accepted if the proposal involves or gives the appearance of involving any of the following activities:

- Promotes hostility or violence.
- Discriminates against any group.
- Promotes the use of drugs, alcohol, tobacco, or firearms.
- Violates any portion of Board Policy 5030(a): Comprehensive Health Education and Wellness, or its goals.
- Promotes sexual, obscene or pornographic activities.
- Promotes religious beliefs, or political parties and opinions.
- Promotes any image that is not in keeping with the goals and purposes of the Santa Rosa City Schools District as determined by the Superintendent or designee.

**Board Approval of Corporate Sponsorship Activities**

All corporate sponsorship proposals must be approved by the Board.

**Duration of Corporate Sponsorship Activities**

A corporate sponsorship shall not exceed mutually agreed upon terms of the project duration. There shall be no expectation a corporate sponsorship will be renewed beyond the Board approval dates. There shall be no limit to the number of times the Board approves the updated sponsorship proposal.

**Acceptance of Corporate Sponsorships**

Any sponsored or donated material, equipment, personal property or other benefit derived by the district through corporate sponsorships will be held to the same standards used for district purchases. Corporate sponsorship proposals that provide gifts, grants, and donations to the school district shall be accepted in accordance with the provisions of district policy.

**Applicable Laws**

All corporate sponsorship proposals presented to and approved by the Board shall be consistent with all district collective bargaining agreements, competitive bidding and purchasing laws, district policy and regulations, and all applicable federal and State laws, administrative codes, rules, and regulations.
