---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "9005.2"
title: "^Remedies For Unauthorized Release Of Confidential/Privileged Information"
type: "BB"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=BrexL1b1X76SsBdPj06YUQ%3D%3D&ptid=qo79RxbUbdO3GjATNVIJ7Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Government Code 1098 (SB 1536, Ch. 962, Statutes of 1987) has made it a misdemeanor for any public officer or employee to willfully and knowingly use or disclose for monetary gain any confidential information acquired in the course of his/her official duties. (Disclosures excepted from this prohibition are those made to law enforcement officials or to the joint legislative audit committee when reporting on improper governmental activities.)

The Board, administration, and staff shall maintain the confidentiality of all confidential records until such time as laws, state regulations, and/or bylaws of this district permit disclosure. Information and records pertaining to closed sessions; negotiations and student records are not subject to public disclosure under Government Code 6252-6260.

Any employee or Board member who willfully releases confidential/privileged information about students, staff, or any topic properly confined to a closed session shall be subject to disciplinary action. Confidential information includes any information relating to the Board's employer-employee strategies on matters in negotiation or matters to be placed in negotiation.

Disciplinary action, as deemed permissible and appropriate by the Board may include but not be limited to, injunctive relief to prevent the disclosure of confidential information, suspension from closed session, referral to the grand jury, suspension of any remuneration and/or benefits, elimination in the participation of district subsidies for future election filing fees, and private/public censure.

Any employee or Board member who willingly and for monetary gain uses or discloses confidential/privileged information as defined in Government Code 1098 is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Government Code 1098)

Any action by an employee that inadvertently or carelessly results in release of confidential/privileged information shall be recorded and the record shall be placed in the employee's personnel file. Depending on the circumstances, the Board may, if permissible, deny the employee, or Board member further access to any privileged information and shall take any steps necessary to prevent any further unauthorized release of such information.
