---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "9323.2-E PDF(1)"
title: "Actions By The Board"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=w69lRVGZBmvPYSslshvu37xTw%3D%3D&ptid=qo79RxbUbdO3GjATNVIJ7Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

ACTIONS REQUIRING A SUPER MAJORITY VOTEActions Requiring a Two-Thirds Vote of the Board:
1. Resolution declaring intention to sell or lease real property
(Education Code
17466
)
(cf.
3280
- Sale or Lease of District-Owned Real Property)
2. Resolution declaring intent of Governing Board to convey or dedicate property to the state or any
political subdivision for the purposes specified in Education Code
17556
(Education Code
17557
)
3. Resolution authorizing and directing the Board president, or any other presiding officer, secretary, or
member, to execute a deed of dedication or conveyance of property to the state or a political
subdivision
(Education Code
17559
)
4. Lease, for up to three months, of school property which has a residence on it and which cannot be
developed for district purposes because funds are unavailable
(Education Code
17481
)
5. Request for temporary borrowing pursuant to Government Code
53820
-
53833
, to pay district
obligations incurred before the receipt of district income for the fiscal year sufficient to meet the
payment(s)
(Government Code
53821
)
6. Upon complying with Government Code
65352.2
and Public Resources Code
21151.2
, action to
render city or county zoning ordinances inapplicable to a proposed use of the property by the district
(Government Code
53094
)
(cf.
7131
- Relations with Local Agencies)
(cf.
7150
- Site Selection and Development)
(cf.
7160
- Charter School Facilities)
7. When the district is organized to serve only grades K-8 and seeks to establish a community day
school for any of grades K-8
(Education Code
48660
)
(cf. 6185 - Community Day School)
8. When the district has an average daily attendance (ADA) of 2,500 or less and seeks to situate a
community day school on an existing school site, certification that satisfactory alternative facilities are
not available for a community day school
(Education Code
48661
)
9. When the district is organized to serve only grades K-8 and seeks to situate a community day school
on an existing school site, certification that satisfactory alternative facilities are not available for a
community day school
(Education Code
48661
)
10. When the district desires to operate a community day school to serve any of grades K-6 (and no
higher grades) on an existing school site, certification that satisfactory alternative facilities are not
available for a community day school
(Education Code
48661
)
11. Resolution of intent to issue general obligation bonds with the approval of 55 percent of the voters
of the district
(Education Code
15266
)

(cf.
7214
- General Obligation Bonds)
12. Resolution of intent to issue bonds within a school facilities improvement district with the approval
of 55 percent of the voters of the school facilities improvement district (Education Code
15266
)
(cf.
7213
- School Facilities Improvement Districts)
13. Resolution to place a parcel tax on the ballot
(Government Code
53724
)
14. Resolution of necessity to proceed with an eminent domain action and, if the Board subsequently
desires to use the property for a different use than stated in the resolution of necessity, a subsequent
resolution so authorizing the different use
(Code of Civil Procedure
1245.240
,
1245.245
)
Actions Requiring a Two-Thirds Vote of the Board Members Present at the Meeting:
1. Determination that there is a need to take immediate action and that the need for action came to the
district's attention after the posting of the agenda. If less than two-thirds of the Board members are
present at the meeting, a unanimous vote of all members present is required.
(Government Code
54954.2
)
2. Determination that a closed session is necessary during an emergency meeting.
If less than two-
thirds of the Board members are present, a unanimous vote of all members present is required.
(Government Code
54956.5
)
(cf.
9320
- Meetings and Notices)
(cf.
9321
- Closed Session Purposes and Agendas)
Actions Requiring a Four-Fifths Vote of the Board:
1. Expenditure and transfer of necessary funds and use of district property or personnel to meet a
national or local emergency created by war, military, naval, or air attack, or sabotage, or to provide for
adequate national or local defense (Government Code
53790
-
53792
)
(cf.
3110
- Transfer of Funds)
2. Resolution for district borrowing based on issuance of notes, tax anticipation warrants, or other
evidences of indebtedness, in an amount up to 50 percent of the district's estimated income and revenue
for the fiscal year or the portion not yet collected at the time of the borrowing
(Government Code
53822
,
53824
)
3. Resolution for district borrowing, between July 15 and August 30 of any fiscal year, of up to 25
percent of the estimated income and revenue to be received by the district during that fiscal year from
apportionments based on ADA for the preceding school year
(Government Code
53823
-
53824
)
4. Declaration of an emergency in order to authorize the district to include a particular brand name or
product in a bid specification
(Public Contract Code
3400
)
(cf.
3311
- Bids)
5. Resolution to award a contract for a public works project at $187,500 or less to the lowest

responsible bidder, when the district is using the informal process authorized under the Uniform Public
Construction Cost Accounting Act for projects of $175,000 or less, all bids received are in excess of
$175,000, and the Board determines that the district's cost estimate was reasonable
(Public Contract
Code
22034
)
Actions Requiring a Unanimous Vote of the Board:
1. Resolution authorizing and prescribing the terms of a community lease for extraction of gas
(Education Code
17510
-
17511
)
2. Waiver of the competitive bid process pursuant to Public Contract Code
20111
when the Board
determines that an emergency exists and upon approval of the County Superintendent of Schools
(Public Contract Code
20113
)
Action Requiring a Unanimous Vote of the Board Members Present at the Meeting:
1. Private sale of surplus property without advertisement in order to establish that such property is not
worth more than $2,500.
Disposal of surplus property in the local dump or donation to a charitable
organization requires the unanimous vote of the Board members present to establish that the value of
such property would not defray the cost of arranging its sale.
(Education Code
17546
)
(cf.
3270
- Sale and Disposal of Books, Equipment and Supplies)
