---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5112.3"
title: "Student Leave Of Absence"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=sQMO1ktyCqFXU1SZ58HRkw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Upon request, the Superintendent or designee may grant a student a leave of absence from school for the purpose of supervised travel, study, training, or work. To be eligible for such leave, the student shall, at the time the leave of absence is to begin, be at least 15 years of age or, if he/she is enrolled in continuation education classes or exempted from continuation education classes pursuant to Education Code 48410, be 16-18 years of age. (Education Code 48232, 48416)

A written agreement shall be entered into that is signed by the student's parent/guardian, the principal or designee of the school which the student would otherwise attend, a classroom teacher familiar with the student's academic progress, and the district's supervisor of child welfare and attendance. In the case of a continuation education student, the student also shall sign the written agreement. The agreement shall include: (Education Code 48232, 48416)

1. The purpose of the leave
2. The length of the leave
3. Provision for a meeting or contact between the student and a designated school official at least once a month while the student is on leave
4. A statement that the leave is for the purpose of supervised travel, study, training, or work not available to the student under another educational option

The length of the leave may be up to one semester, or up to two semesters for a continuation education student. The leave may be extended for an additional semester upon approval of all parties to the written agreement and the local school attendance review board. No leave of absence may be taken that would continue past the end of the school year in which the leave is taken. (Education Code 48232, 48416)

The student shall be permitted to return to school at any time and shall not be prevented from completing his/her academic requirements within a time period equal to that of his/her classmates who did not take leave, plus a period of time equal to the leave of absence. If the student reenrolls at a time other than the beginning of a semester, the school shall not be required to provide make-up sessions for classes missed. (Education Code 48232, 48416)

If the student does not contact the designated school official as required by the written agreement, the leave shall be nullified. The agreement also may be nullified for cause at any time by any party to the agreement. (Education Code 48232, 48416)
