---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5113.2"
title: "Work Permits"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=kVpnCIl8XjGnbvx3ftFysg%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that part-time employment can provide students with income as well as job experience that can help them develop appropriate workplace skills and attitudes. Upon obtaining an offer of employment, district students who are minors shall obtain work permits from the Superintendent or designee in accordance with law, regardless of whether the employment will occur when school is in session and/or not in session.

In determining whether to grant or continue a work permit, the Superintendent or designee shall consider whether employment is likely to significantly interfere with the student's schoolwork. Students granted work permits must demonstrate and maintain a 2.0 grade point average and satisfactory school attendance. On a case-by-case basis, the Superintendent or designee may approve a maximum work hour limit that is lower than the limit specified in law and administrative regulation.

Students with work permits may be exempted from attendance in a full-time day school provided they attend part-time classes. (Education Code 48230)

Work permits shall be limited to part-time employment as defined by law, except when the Superintendent or designee determines that circumstances warrant the granting of a permit for full-time employment.

Any student authorized to work full time when school is in session shall be enrolled in part-time continuation classes. A student age 14 or 15 who receives a permit to work full time shall also be enrolled in a work experience education program. (Education Code 49130, 49131, 49135)
