---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5125.1-E PDF(1)"
title: "Release Of Directory Information"
type: "E PDF"
date_last_revised: "01/10/2019"
date_last_reviewed: ""
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=5igWyRcCSbZtxezt8qmjLw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Parent/Guardian NoticeRelease Of Directory Information
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), a federal law, requires that Santa Rosa City
Schools District with certain exceptions, obtain your written consent prior to the disclosure of
personally identifiable information from your child's education records.
However, the district may
disclose appropriately designated "directory information" without written consent, unless you have
advised the district to the contrary in accordance with district procedures.
The primary purpose of
directory information is to allow the district to include this type of information from your child's
education records in certain school and/or district publications.
Examples include:
* a playbill, showing your child's role in a drama production
* the annual yearbook
* honor roll or other recognition lists
* graduation programs
* sports activity sheets, such as for wrestling, showing weight and height of team members
Directory information, which is information that is generally not considered harmful or an invasion of
privacy if released, can also be disclosed to outside organizations without a parent/guardian's prior
written consent. Outside organizations include, but are not limited to, companies that manufacture
class rings or publish yearbooks. In addition, two federal laws require districts receiving assistance
under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA), as amended, to provide military
recruiters, upon request, with students' names, addresses, and telephone listings, unless
parents/guardians have advised the district that they do not want their child's information disclosed
without their prior written consent.
If you do not want the district to disclose directory information from your child's education records
without your prior written consent, you must notify the district in writing by _____(insert
date)___________. The district has designated the following information as directory information:
1. Name
2. Address
3. Telephone number
4. Email address
5. Date of birth
6. Major field of study
7. Participation in officially recognized activities and sports
8. Weight and height of athletic team members

9. Dates of attendance
10. Degrees and awards received
11. Most recent previous school attended
The district also may disclose your child's student identification number, user identification, or other
unique personal identifier used to communicate in electronic systems, provided it cannot be used to
access education records without a personal identification number (PIN), password, or other factor that
only the authorized user knows.
Your child's social security number will not be used for this purpose.
Directory information does not include your child's citizenship status, immigration status, place of
birth, or any other information indicating national origin. The district will not disclose such
information without your consent or a court order.
