---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5125.1"
title: "Release Of Directory Information"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "01/10/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "01/10/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=zynFfGx06Y396A9V2NvtYQ%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Definition**

Directory information means information contained in a student record that would not generally be considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. Such student information includes: (Education Code 49061; 20 USC 1232g; 34 CFR 99.3)

1. Name
2. Address
3. Telephone number
4. Email address
5. Date of birth
6. Major field of study
7. Participation record in officially recognized activities and sports
8. Weight and height of athletic team members
9. Dates of attendance
10. Degrees and awards received
11. Most recent previous school attended

Directory information does not include a student's social security number or student identification number. However, for purposes of accessing or communicating in electronic systems, directory information may include a student identification number, user identification, or other personal identifier used by the student provided that the identifier cannot be used to gain access to education records except when used in conjunction with a personal identification number, password, or other factor known or possessed only by the authorized user. (34 CFR 99.3)

Directory information also does not include a student's citizenship status, immigration status, place of birth, or any other information indicating national origin.

**Notification to Parents/Guardians**

At the beginning of each school year, all parents/guardians shall be notified as to the categories of directory information the district plans to release and the recipients of the information. The notification shall also inform parents/guardians of their right to refuse to let the district designate any or all types of information as directory information, how to refuse release, and the period of time within which a parent/guardian must notify the district in writing that he/she does not want a certain category of information designated as directory information. (Education Code 49063, 49073; 20 USC 1232g; 34 CFR 99.37)

In addition, the annual parental notification shall include a statement that directory information does not include citizenship status, immigration status, place of birth, or any other information indicating national origin and that the district will not release such information without parental consent or a court order.

The Superintendent or designee shall notify parents/guardians that they may request that the district not release the name, address, and telephone number of their child to military recruiters, employers, or institutions of higher education without prior written consent. (20 USC 7908)

**Parent/Guardian Consent**

No directory information of a student identified as a homeless child or youth as defined in 42 USC 11434a shall be released, unless the parent/guardian, or the student if he/she is 18 years or older, has provided written consent that directory information may be released. For any other student, directory information shall not be released if his/her parent/guardian notifies the district in writing that such information not be disclosed without the parent/guardian's prior consent. (Education Code 49073; 20 USC 1232g, 7908)

For a former student, the district shall continue to honor any valid request to opt out of the disclosure of directory information made while the student was in attendance at the district, unless the opt-out request has been rescinded. (34 CFR 99.37)
