---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.63"
title: "Steroids"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=a4MfD9k29swo9HhJjxyCTA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The district shall not accept a sponsorship from any manufacturer or distributor whose name appears on the label of a dietary supplement that contains substances banned by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and the substance synephrine. Such supplements shall not be sold, distributed, or marketed at a school-related event. (Education Code 49031)

Marketing includes, but is not limited to, direct product advertising, provision of educational materials, product promotion by a district employee or volunteer, product placement, clothing or equipment giveaways, or scholarships. Marketing shall not include the inadvertent display of a product name or advertising by a person who is not a manufacturer or distributor. (Education Code 49031)

School personnel and coaches may provide only nonmuscle-building nutritional supplements to student athletes for the purpose of providing additional calories and electrolytes, provided that they do not contain any dietary supplements prohibited by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and the substance synephrine. Permissible nonmuscle-building nutritional supplements are identified according to the following classes: carbohydrate/electrolyte drinks, energy bars, carbohydrate boosters, and vitamins and minerals.

School personnel, including coaches, shall follow the manufacturer's recommendations when discussing the use of any drug or food supplement with a student athlete. In order to minimize the health and safety risks to student athletes, school personnel shall not supply or recommend any drug, medication, or food supplement to enhance an athlete's performance.

**Notice**

The principal or designee shall ensure that the following warning, reproduced in 10-point bold type, is posted in every locker room of schools with classes in grades 7-12 and contained in any contracts for the lease or rental of the school's athletic facilities: (Civil Code 1812.97)

Warning: Use of steroids to increase strength or growth can cause serious health problems. Steroids can keep teenagers from growing to their full height; they can also cause heart disease, stroke, and damaged liver function.

Men and women using steroids may develop fertility problems, personality changes, and acne. Men can also experience premature balding and development of breast tissue. These health hazards are in addition to the civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized sale, use, or exchange of anabolic steroids.
