---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.62"
title: "Tobacco"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "08/09/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "08/09/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=bJKxBkeMuNOeTZslshUdml4DQ%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that tobacco use presents serious health risks and desires to provide support and assistance in reducing the number of students who begin or continue to use tobacco.

The Board prohibits the use of products containing tobacco and/or nicotine, including, but not limited to, smokeless tobacco, snuff, chew, clove cigarettes, and electronic nicotine delivery systems, such as electronic cigarettes, any time, in charter school or school district-owned or leased buildings, on school or district property, and in school or district vehicles. However, this section does not prohibit the use or possession of prescription products, or other cessation aids such as nicotine patches or nicotine gum. Student use or possession of such products must conform to laws governing student use and possession of medications on school property. Other vapor emitting electronic devices, such as electronic hookah, with or without nicotine content, that mimic the use of tobacco products, are also prohibited. The Superintendent or designee shall establish a comprehensive program that includes consistent enforcement of laws prohibiting tobacco possession and use by students, tobacco-use prevention education including youth development activities, and intervention and cessation activities and/or referrals.

**Prohibition Against Tobacco Use**

Students shall not possess, smoke, or use tobacco or any product containing tobacco or nicotine while on campus, while attending school-sponsored activities, or while under the supervision and control of district employees. Prohibited products include, but are not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, miniature cigars, clove cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, snuff, chew packets, and betel. (Education Code 48900, 48901)

Students' possession or use of nicotine delivery devices, such as electronic cigarettes, is also prohibited.

These prohibitions do not apply to a student's possession or use of his/her own prescription products. (Education Code 48900, 48901)

**Prevention Instruction**

The district shall provide developmentally appropriate tobacco-use prevention instruction for students at selected grade levels from K-12. Such instruction shall be aligned with state content standards and the state curriculum framework for health education and with any requirements of state and/or federal grant programs in which the district participates.

The district may provide or refer students to counseling. intensive education. and other intervention services to assist in the cessation of tobacco use. When appropriate, such intervention services may be provided as an alternative to suspension for tobacco possession.

**Program Planning**

The district's tobacco-use prevention and intervention program shall be based on an assessment of tobacco-use problems in district schools and the community, an examination of existing services and activities in the community, and a determination of high-risk student populations that are most in need of district services.

The Superintendent or designee shall coordinate with the local health department and county office of education in program planning and implementation. He/she may establish an advisory council including students, parents/guardians, district staff, representatives of the local health department and community organizations, law enforcement professionals, and/or others with demonstrated expertise in tobacco prevention and cessation.

The Superintendent or designee also shall coordinate the district's tobacco-use prevention and intervention program with other district efforts to reduce students' use of illegal substances and to promote student wellness.

The Superintendent or designee shall select anti-tobacco programs based on the model program designs identified by the California Department of Education (CDE) and may modify the model to meet district needs. (Health and Safety Code 104420)

The Superintendent or designee shall not accept for distribution any materials or advertisements that promote the use or sale of tobacco products. He/she also shall not accept tobacco-use prevention or intervention funds or materials from the tobacco industry or from any entity which has received funding from the tobacco industry.

**Program Evaluation**

To evaluate the effectiveness of the district's program and ensure accountability, the Superintendent or designee shall biennially administer the California Healthy Kids Survey or other appropriate student survey at selected grade levels in order to assess student attitudes toward tobacco and student use of tobacco. He/she also shall annually report to the Board, and to the CDE if required, the data specified in Health and Safety Code 104450.

The results of program evaluations shall be used to refine program goals and objectives and make changes as needed to strengthen program implementation.
