---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.6"
title: "Alcohol And Other Drugs"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=ozuGTdhQVbgtCOO653U2Ow%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education believes that the use of alcohol or other drugs adversely affects a student's ability to achieve academic success, is physically and emotionally harmful, and has serious social and legal consequences. The Board desires to keep district schools free of alcohol and other drugs in order to help prevent violence, promote school safety and create a well-disciplined environment conducive to learning.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop, implement and evaluate a comprehensive prevention and intervention program that is coordinated with other school and community-based services and programs. The district's program shall be scientifically based and designed to prevent or reduce alcohol or other drug use and the possession and distribution of illegal drugs. It shall include primary prevention activities such as decision-making skills and conflict management, instruction, referral to a rehabilitation program, enforcement/discipline, activities that promote the involvement of parents/guardians and coordination with appropriate community agencies and organizations.

The Board and Superintendent shall agree upon performance measures that will be used to monitor and determine the effectiveness of the district's program in reducing drug and alcohol use. The Superintendent or designee shall develop and implement an evaluation process that includes ongoing assessment and analysis of objective data regarding the incidence of drug and alcohol use among district students, including discipline problems, and the prevalence of risk factors.

The Superintendent or designee shall consult with principals, teachers, other school personnel, students and parents/guardians when developing the district's program.

The Superintendent or designee shall clearly communicate to all students, staff and parents/guardians the district's policies, regulations and school rules related to the use of alcohol and other drugs on school campuses or at school activities. Information about program needs and goals shall be widely distributed in the community.

Staff should encourage students to participate as responsible partners in efforts to maintain a safe, constructive school climate.

The Board encourages the establishment of site-level advisory groups to assist in promoting alcohol- and drug-free schools.

The district's drug education program shall augment county drug education services, if any. District staff shall take every opportunity to cooperate with county and county office of education staff in planning and implementing collaborative alcohol and drug prevention programs.

**Instruction**

The district shall provide science-based preventative instruction which has been proven effective in helping students avoid the use of alcohol and other drugs.

All instruction and related materials shall consistently state that unlawful use of alcohol or other drugs is wrong and harmful. Instruction shall not include the concept of responsible use of drugs or alcohol when such use is illegal. (20 USC 7114, 7162; Health and Safety Code 11999.2)

The district shall offer staff development activities for staff who implement the comprehensive drug and alcohol prevention and intervention program.

**Intervention, Referral and Student Assistance Programs**

School staff, students and parents/guardians shall be informed about early warning signs which may indicate alcohol and other drug use and about appropriate agencies offering intervention programs, counseling, referral and other student assistance programs.

The Board strongly encourages any student who is using alcohol or drugs to discuss the matter with his/her parent/guardian or with any staff member. Students who disclose their use of alcohol or other drugs when seeking help from an intervention or recovery program shall not be disciplined for such use.

**Enforcement/Discipline**

The Superintendent or designee shall take appropriate action to eliminate possession, use or sale of alcohol and other drugs and related paraphernalia on school grounds or at school-sponsored activities.

Students possessing, using or selling alcohol or other drugs or related paraphernalia shall be subject to disciplinary procedures including suspension or expulsion and/or referral to law enforcement in accordance with law, Board policy and administrative regulation. In addition, such students may be referred to an appropriate counseling program, transferred to an alternative placement, and/or be restricted from extracurricular activities, including athletics.
