---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.63"
title: "Steroids"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=9GNdFz1UYsOXplusDtS3UwU8g%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that the use of steroids and other performance-enhancing supplements presents a serious health and safety hazard. As part of the district's drug prevention and intervention efforts, the Superintendent or designee and staff shall make every reasonable effort to prevent students from using steroids or other performance-enhancing supplements.

Students in grades 7-12 shall receive a lesson on the effects of steroids as part of their health, physical education, or drug education program.

Students participating in interscholastic athletics are prohibited from using steroids and dietary supplements banned by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency as well as the substance synephrine. (Education Code 49030)

Before participating in interscholastic athletics, a student athlete and his/her parent/guardian shall sign a statement that the student athlete pledges not to use androgenic/anabolic steroids and dietary supplements banned by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and the substance synephrine, unless the student has a written prescription from a licensed health care practitioner to treat a medical condition.

A student who is found to have violated the agreement or this policy shall be restricted from participating in athletics and shall be subject to disciplinary procedures including, but not limited to, suspension or expulsion in accordance with law, Board policy, and administrative regulation.

Coaches shall educate students about the district's prohibition and the dangers of using steroids and other performance-enhancing supplements.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that district schools do not accept sponsorships or donations from supplement manufacturers that offer muscle-building supplements to students.
