---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.9"
title: "Academic Honesty"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "10/22/2025"
date_last_reviewed: "10/22/2025"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=plussgiplusJd3f9EKEjzV01mzfA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education believes that personal integrity is basic to all solid achievement. Students will reach their full potential only by being honest with themselves and with others.

The Board expects students to respect the educational purpose underlying all school activities. All students need to prove to themselves that they can do successful work as a result of their own efforts. The Board expects that students will not cheat, collude, or plagiarize.

The Board recognizes that students are more inclined to cheat, collude, or plagiarize when there is little likelihood of getting caught. Each school shall provide an environment that encourages honesty. Students must know that their teachers will not ignore or condone cheating, collusion, or plagiarism and that anyone discovered cheating, colluding, or plagiarizing will be penalized.

Definitions of Cheating, Collusion and Plagiarism

1. Cheating/Collusion Cheating is the act of obtaining or attempting to obtain credit for academic work by using dishonest means. Cheating and collusion include but are not limited to:
  1. Copying, in part or whole, or otherwise acquired from another's examination, paper (including homework assignments), mathematical calculation(s), research, creative project or the like
  2. Submitting as one's own work an examination, paper, mathematical calculation(s), research or creative project, or the like which has been purchased, borrowed, or stolen
  3. Intentional falsification or invention of data or a source in an academic exercise
  4. Using notes or materials not specifically authorized by the instructor during an examination
  5. Any collaboration between a student and another person at times or in ways which are not permitted by the instructor
2. Plagiarism Plagiarism is the act of obtaining or attempting to obtain credit for academic work by representing the work of another as one's own (including text found on the Internet) without the necessary and appropriate acknowledgment. Specifically, plagiarism is: ​​​​​​​

1. The act of incorporating the ideas, words of sentences, paragraphs, or parts thereof without appropriate acknowledgment and representing the product as one's own work ​​​​​​​
2. The act of representing another's intellectual or creative work such as musical composition, computer program, photograph, painting, drawing, sculpture, research, the like as one's own
