---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.4"
title: "Student Disturbances"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "06/24/2026"
date_last_reviewed: "06/24/2026"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=9plus88UzsunVKRB5h0i8XQGA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Governing Board desires to provide orderly campuses that create a positive school environment and are conducive to learning, and recognizes that student disturbances interfere with such an environment and interrupt learning

In order to respond to a student disturbance and to help prevent student activity from becoming a student disturbance, the Superintendent or designee and the principal of each school shall establish a student disturbance management plan for the school. At the Superintendent's or designee's discretion, the plan may be included in the school's comprehensive school safety plan in accordance with Board Policy/Administrative Regulation 0450 - Comprehensive Safety Plan, or in the district's school emergency and disaster preparedness plan in accordance with Board Policy/Administrative Regulation 3516 - Emergencies and Disaster Preparedness Plan.

In developing each school's plan, the Superintendent or designee and principal may consult with students, staff, parents/guardians, and other interested individuals, as appropriate. Additionally, the Superintendent or designee and principal may consult with local law enforcement authorities to the extent the plan includes guidelines for law enforcement support and intervention.

The plan may include, but need not be limited to, the following:

1. The types of student disturbances that the plan addresses, including prohibited activities listed in the accompanying administrative regulation Additionally, this may include student activities that constitute or may lead to student disturbances such as protests, sit-ins/stand-ins, and walk-outs.
2. Measures designed to prevent student disturbances This may include identifying student supports and training to help staff recognize, report, and respond to student activities that may lead to student disturbances.
3. The school's responses to student disturbances This may include consideration of student rights such as freedom of expression in accordance with Board Policy/Administrative Regulation 5145.2 - Freedom of Speech/Expression.
4. Staff involvement in student disturbances Any such involvement shall be in accordance with Board Policy 4119.1/4219.1/4319.1 - Civil and Legal Rights and Board Policy/Administrative Regulation 4119.25/4219.25/4319.25- Political Activities of Employees.

Students who participate in a disturbance may be subject to discipline in accordance with Board Policy/Administrative Regulation 5144 - Discipline, Board Policy/Administrative Regulation 5144.1 - Suspension and Expulsion/Due Process, and Administrative Regulation 5144.2 - Suspension and Expulsion/Due Process (Students with Disabilities).
