---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.5"
title: "Vandalism And Graffiti"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=Sff8GCxfvFGqOt9QDrqf0Q%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to enhance student learning by striving to provide an environment where students and staff can feel safe and secure and can take pride in their school. To that end, the Superintendent or designee shall develop strategies for preventing graffiti and vandalism on school grounds, including collaborating with local law enforcement and city and county officials, as appropriate, to help develop a coordinated response to graffiti and vandalism in the community.

Students and staff are encouraged to report any graffiti or vandalism to the principal or designee for investigation. The principal or designee shall determine whether the incident necessitates an investigation pursuant to the district's sexual harassment, hate-motivated behavior, or nondiscrimination grievance procedure.

As appropriate, the principal or designee may contact local law enforcement in instances when the graffiti is repetitive, identifies particular targets or groups, identifies the perpetrator, and/or contains incitements to violence, threats, or intimidation. Photographs or other evidence of the vandalism or graffiti shall be preserved as necessary for investigation by the district or law enforcement and as evidence in any district disciplinary proceedings.

The principal or designee shall ensure that graffiti on school grounds is removed and covered as soon as possible, and if practicable before the beginning of the school day.

A student who commits an act of vandalism or graffiti on school grounds shall be subject to disciplinary action, including, but not limited to, suspension or expulsion in accordance with Board policy and administrative regulation. If reparation for damages is not made, the district also may withhold the student's grades, diploma, and/or transcripts in accordance with law.
