---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.9"
title: "Academic Honesty"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=YExwLb1slshGJ1GUPZS5EMwqg%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Teachers are expected to carefully monitor their classes with regard to preventing cheating, collusion, plagiarism, and the use of electronic devices during state and classroom assessments. Rules are to be established and uniformly enforced. The message given in every classroom will be that acts of cheating, collusion, plagiarism, and the use of electronic devices during assessments are not tolerated. When class rules are published, they should explicitly state the sanctions for cheating, collusion, plagiarism, and the use of electronic devices during an assessment.

Teachers must always use their best professional judgment with regard to evidence of cheating, collusion, plagiarism and/or the use of electronic devices and the seriousness of an incident.

Cheating not only deprives the person doing the cheating from a meaningful learning experience but is unfair to the student who has earned a grade fairly.

Individual teachers may implement class rules and sanctions for cheating, collusion, plagiarism and/or the use of electronic devices that are consistent with Board policy.

School administrators will support teachers in establishing a climate of honesty and fair play. Information will be sent to parents/guardians enlisting their support. School rules and school discipline plans will address cheating. Effort should be made to respect the rights of the student.

**Guidelines for District Staff**

1. Teacher May Choose an Informal Resolution
  1. Rationale: In an attempt to honor the bond between classroom teacher and student, the district encourages informal resolution of the issue. In many instances, when a teacher suspects cheating, collusion, plagiarism and/or the use of electronic devices, informal discussions, void of accusations, with the student may resolve the issue. The teacher may assign an appropriate academic sanction(s).
2. Teacher May Choose a Semi-formal Resolution
  1. Rationale: In a further attempt to mediate an issue of academic honesty and integrity, the district recognizes that a semi-formal resolution to the issue may be deemed necessary by the teacher before a formal resolution is initiated. A semi-formal resolution involves a discussion between the student, teacher, the student's counselor, a site administrator, and parent/guardian, if possible. (The teacher must notify the parent/guardian of the semi-formal resolution if parent/guardian is not in attendance at this conference). The teacher may assign an appropriate academic sanction(s). ​​​​​​​
3. Teacher and/or Student May Choose Formal Resolution ​​​​​​​
  1. Rationale: When a teacher suspects that a student has cheated, colluded, and/or plagiarized, or used an electronic device, formal proceedings, if deemed necessary, may be initiated by the teacher when: ​​​​​​​
    1. An attempt at an informal resolution fails, or
    2. The seriousness of the situation demands formal disciplinary action.

In addition, the student may initiate a formal proceeding only if s/he believes that s/he has been falsely accused of a violation of the Academic Honesty Policy.

2. Procedure: When a teacher or student opts for a formal resolution to an issue of academic honesty, the following procedure will be initiated while insuring that the due rocess rights of the student are observed: ​​​​​​​
  1. The teacher must share his/her concerns with the student(s) and the parent/guardian and request that all resources used in the creation of the assignment be provided for review. The teacher may also request that a hard copy of the written assignment/paper be submitted on disk.
  2. The teacher must complete the Formal Resolution Request Form (that accompanies this Administrative Regulation) which is signed by the student and submitted to the appropriate department chair/team leader and to the principal or designee.
  3. The department chair/team leader, in conjunction with the site administrator, will convene a group of three teachers, one of whom is requested by the student, to evaluate, independently, the charge of cheating, collusion, plagiarism, and/or the use of an electronic device. This group, who will evaluate the alleged violation, will be identified as the Academic Honesty Committee. One or more of the independent evaluators will interview the student. The independent evaluators shall determine one of the following findings with regard to allegations of cheating, collusion, plagiarism, and/or the use of an electronic device: ​​​​​​​
    1. Committed intentionally
    2. Committed unintentionally
    3. Unable to be determined ​​​​​​​
  4. If a determination of cheating, collusion, plagiarism, and/or use of an electronic device is found to have occurred, the committee and the teacher will recommend the appropriate academic sanction(s), which the teacher will then assign.
  5. The findings of the committee are final; no appeal is permitted.

4. Violation of State Testing Regulations - State Guidelines Must be Followed ​​​​​​​
  1. Rationale: State Testing includes Standardized Testing and Reporting Program (STAR), California High School Exit Exam (CAHSEE) and the California English Language Development Test (CELDT). Title 5 California Code of Regulations, requires test coordinators, test examiners and proctors to maintain the security of all test materials. Students are required to stow away all books, electronic devices, and other materials not needed for the specific test. Electronic devices and other materials not required for testing may not be available to students during any portion of the testing session nor while students are in a room where testing is taking place. Any violation of the State testing security requirements will result in immediate notification to the California Department of Education in addition to site and district administration.
  2. Procedure: When a student makes use of an electronic device that was not specifically directed for use on a State Assessment, the Site Test Coordinator shall immediately be contacted.

The Site Test Coordinator will notify the Site Principal and the District Test Coordinator of the infraction that occurred. Site Administration will determine the appropriate sanctions to be imposed on the student.

The parents/guardians will be notified of the test security violation.

The student's answer document may be invalidated as directed by the District Test Coordinator upon consultation with the California Department of Education. Additional Academic Sanctions may be imposed by the site.

**Academic Sanctions**

One or more academic sanctions may be imposed for cheating, collusion, plagiarism and/or the use of electronic devices. Academic sanctions include, but are not limited to:

1. Requiring the student to rework the assignment entirely, using his/her own ideas and style.
2. Reducing the credit that the student would otherwise receive for the assignment by a degree commensurate with the severity of the violation.
3. Refusing to give the student any credit for the assignment.
4. Reducing the course grade for the quarter in which the offense was committed.
5. Referring the student to the proper school authority for any additional counseling and/or disciplinary action.
6. Removal from the class.

Whatever the mode of resolution, the teacher has the right to assign the full range of academic sanctions that may be imposed for cheating, collusion, plagiarism and/or the use of an electronic device.

**Documentation of Student Violation of Academic Honesty Policy**

In all instances where a student has been found to have cheated, colluded, plagiarized, and/or used an electronic device regardless of the level of resolution outlined in section 1, a student conduct referral will be made to the appropriate administrator documenting the violation of Board Policy 5131.9 Academic Honesty, and a formal letter, with a copy placed in the student's conduct file, shall be sent to the student's parent/guardian describing the action and confirming the consequence(s).
