---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5131.8"
title: "Mobile Communication Devices"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/08/2026"
date_last_reviewed: "04/08/2026"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=UeHyQNSfxMepluso5mv5cERplusA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Governing Board recognizes that student use of smartphones and other mobile communication, digital, and entertainment devices on campus may be beneficial to student learning and well-being, and could be harmful and disruptive of the instructional program in some circumstances. When on campus or when under the supervision of district employees, students may use smartphones and other mobile communication devices only as permitted under this policy.

Students shall not use smartphones and other mobile communication, digital, and entertainment devices while at a school site or under the supervision and control of a district employee.

However, a student shall not be prohibited from possessing or using a mobile communication device under any of the following circumstances: (Education Code 48901.5, 48901.7)

1. In the case of an emergency, or in response to a perceived threat of danger
2. When a teacher or administrator grants permission to the student to possess or use a mobile communication device, subject to any reasonable limitation imposed by that teacher or administrator
3. When a licensed physician or surgeon determines that the possession or use is necessary for the student's health and well-being
4. When the possession or use is required by the student's individualized education program or by the student’s 504 plan.

The Superintendent or designee may undertake measures or strategies in accordance with law to limit student access to smartphones and other mobile communication, digital, and entertainment devices on campus. (Education Code 48901.7)

Smartphones and other mobile communication, digital, and entertainment devices shall not be used in any manner that infringes on the privacy rights of any other person.

A student's personal electronic device shall not be searched without the consent of the student's parent/guardian, except pursuant to a lawfully issued warrant, when a school official, in good faith, believes that an emergency involving danger of death or serious physical injury to the student or others requires access to the electronic device information, or when the search is otherwise permitted pursuant to Penal Code 1546.1.

When a student uses a mobile communication device in an unauthorized manner while at a school site or under the supervision and control of a district employee, the student may be disciplined, and the district employee may temporarily confiscate the device. The employee shall store the device securely until it is returned to the student or turned over to the principal or designee, as appropriate.

A student may also be subject to discipline, in accordance with law, Board policy, or administrative regulation, for off-campus use of a mobile communication device that poses a threat or danger to the safety of students, staff, or district property or substantially disrupts school activities.

The district will not be responsible or liable for a student's mobile communication device, which is brought on campus or to a school activity and is lost, stolen, or damaged.

The Board shall review and, as necessary, update this policy at least once every five years. Any such review or update shall include significant stakeholder participation to ensure that the policy is responsive to the unique needs and desires of the school community.
