---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.26"
title: "Tuberculosis Testing"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=rIck4nWXW9P7xeRnePwcdw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

Any student with active tuberculosis shall be excluded from attendance at a district school in accordance with AR 5112.2 - Exclusions from Attendance.

Students shall be screened or tested for tuberculosis under the following circumstances:

1. As part of the comprehensive health screening required for school entry, parents/guardians shall provide evidence within 90 days after their child's entry into first grade that their child has been screened for risk of tuberculosis within the preceding 18 months. (Health and Safety Code 124040 , 124085 )
2. Whenever ordered by the local health officer, students seeking admission for the first time to a district school at any grade level shall submit to tuberculosis testing. Any student subject to the order shall be admitted to school as follows:
  1. The Superintendent or designee shall unconditionally admit the student if he/she, prior to admission, submits a certificate, signed by any public or private medical provider, indicating that he/she has completed an approved tuberculosis examination and is free from active tuberculosis. (Health and Safety Code 121485 , 121490 , 121500 ; 22 CCR 41305 , 41311 , 41313 ) A student shall not be required to obtain the certificate if his/her parent/guardian or custodian provides the Superintendent or designee with an affidavit stating that the required examination is contrary to his/her beliefs. If there is probable cause to believe that such a student has active tuberculosis, he/she may be excluded from school until the Superintendent or designee is satisfied that he/she is not afflicted. (Health and Safety Code 121505 )
  2. A student who has not submitted the certificate may be conditionally admitted provided that he/she receives an approved tuberculin skin test within 10 school days after admission. A student who had a positive skin test and has not subsequently obtained a chest x-ray may be conditionally admitted if he/she receives a chest x-ray within 20 school days after admission. Any student who fails to provide the certificate within those time periods shall be prohibited from further attendance until he/she provides the certificate. (Health and Safety Code 121495 ; 22 CCR 41315 , 41327 )
  3. Whenever the local health officer so orders, a student may be required to complete an additional examination and provide another certificate indicating that he/she is free of communicable tuberculosis. (Health and Safety Code 121485 )
  4. At the discretion of the local health officer, the district may admit a student without a certificate if he/she is undergoing or has already undergone preventive treatment for tuberculosis infection or treatment for tuberculosis disease. (22 CCR 41319 ) ​​​​​​​
3. Whenever the Superintendent or designee suspects that a student who has not been examined for tuberculosis either has the disease or has been exposed, he/she shall immediately report by telephone to the local health officer. When required by the local health officer, the district shall exclude the student from school until he/she is certified to be free of communicable tuberculosis. (22 CCR 41329 )

The Superintendent or designee shall maintain a record of any student's tuberculosis examination as part of the student's mandatory permanent student record. (22 CCR 41323)

The Superintendent or designee shall annually file a report with the local health department on the results of tuberculosis examinations for all individuals required to complete such examinations in accordance with item #2 above, including, but not necessarily limited to, the number of individuals unconditionally and conditionally admitted and the number of individuals exempted on the basis of their personal beliefs. (22 CCR 41325)
