---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.6"
title: "School Health Services"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "12/11/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "12/11/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=Pf3plusOCuSkjzD8MTtrHFexg%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Types of Health Services**

In accordance with student and community needs and available resources, school health services offered by the district may include, but are not limited to:

1. Health screenings, evaluations, and assessments of students' need for health services
2. Physical examinations, immunizations, and other preventive medical services
3. First aid and administration of medications
4. Diagnosis and treatment of minor injuries and acute medical conditions
5. Management of chronic medical conditions
6. Basic laboratory tests
7. Emergency response procedures
8. Nutrition services
9. Oral health services that may include preventive services, basic restorative services, and referral to specialty services The Superintendent or designee shall notify all parents/guardians of the opportunity pursuant to Health and Safety Code 104830-104865 for their child to receive the topical application of fluoride, including fluoride varnish, or other decay-inhibiting agent to the teeth during the school year. Such application of fluoride or other decay-inhibiting agent shall only be provided to a student whose parent/guardian returns the notification with an indication consenting to the treatment. (Health and Safety Code 104830, 104850, 104855)
10. Mental health services, which may include assessments, crisis intervention, counseling, treatment, and referral to a continuum of services including emergency psychiatric care, community support programs, inpatient care, and outpatient programs
11. Substance abuse prevention and intervention services
12. Vision and audiology services
13. Speech therapy
14. Occupational therapy
15. Physical therapy
16. Reproductive health services
17. Specialized health care services for students with disabilities
18. Medical transportation
19. Targeted case management
20. Referrals and linkage to services not offered on-site
21. Public health and disease surveillance
22. Individual and family health education
23. School or districtwide health promotion

**Medi-Cal Billing**

In order to provide services as a Medi-Cal provider, the district shall enter into and maintain a contract with the California Department of Health Care Services (DHCS). (Welfare and Institutions Code 14132.06; 22 CCR 51051, 51270)

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that all practitioners employed by or under contract with the district possess the appropriate license, certification, registration, or credential and provide only those services that are within their scope of practice. (22 CCR 51190.3, 51270, 51491)

The Superintendent or designee shall submit a claim for Medi-Cal reimbursement whenever the district provides a Medi-Cal-eligible student under age 22 and/or a member of the student's family a covered service specified in 22 CCR 51190.4 or 51360. (Welfare and Institutions Code 14132.06; 22 CCR 51096, 51098, 51190.1, 51190.4, 51309, 51360, 51535.5)

The district shall maintain records and supporting documentation including, but not limited to, records of the type and extent of services provided to a Medi-Cal beneficiary in accordance with law. (22 CCR 51270, 51476)

Any federal funds received by the district as reimbursement for the costs of services under the Medi-Cal billing option shall be reinvested in approved services for students and their families. The Superintendent or designee shall consult with a local school-linked services collaborative group regarding decisions on reinvestment of federal funds. (22 CCR 51270)

The Superintendent or designee shall submit an annual report to DHCS to identify participants in the community collaborative, provide a financial summary including reinvestment expenditures, and describe service priorities for the future. (22 CCR 51270)

**Medi-Cal Administrative Activities**

The district shall apply for reimbursement for activities identified by DHCS which are related to the administration of the Medi-Cal program. Such activities include, but are not be limited to, outreach, translation for Medi-Cal services, facilitation of applications, arrangement of nonemergency and nonmedical transportation of eligible individuals, program planning and policy development, claims coordination and administration, training, and general administration.

Appropriate staff shall receive training in administrative claiming categories and related activities.

To receive reimbursement for Medi-Cal administrative activities, the Superintendent or designee shall, on a quarterly basis, submit an invoice to the local educational consortium or local governmental agency through which the district has contracted.

In addition, the Superintendent or designee shall submit to the local educational consortium or local governmental agency, and shall update each quarter, a roster of all employees who perform direct Medi-Cal services or administrative activities. When notified by the local educational consortium or local governmental agency of the date and time that a random-moment time survey must be conducted by a particular employee, the Superintendent or designee shall coordinate the completion and submission of the survey in accordance with DHCS timelines and procedures.

The Superintendent or designee shall maintain an audit file containing random-moment time survey documentation and other records specified by DHCS. Such documentation shall be kept for three years after the end of the quarter in which expenditures were incurred or, if an audit is in progress, until the completion of the audit.
