---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.23"
title: "Asthma Management"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=5dFWgzhJHSRPZCCaIYqSQA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Identification of Students with Asthma**

The Superintendent or designee shall, upon a student's registration for school and annually thereafter, request parents/guardians to notify the principal or designee, in writing, if their child has been diagnosed with asthma, has recently experienced symptoms or has a history of asthma, and/or is at risk for potentially severe asthma attacks. The request also shall encourage parents/guardians to provide such notification at any time during the school year that their child is so diagnosed.

The Superintendent or designee shall keep a student's medical information in a secure location and maintain the confidentiality of student health records in accordance with law governing student records. A copy of a student's health record shall be provided to the school nurse, if any. In addition, pertinent information from the health record shall be released to other employees whose responsibilities require that they have access to such information in order to provide support services or to respond in an emergency, such as a student's teacher(s), coach(es), bus driver, and any other staff with responsibility for direct supervision of the student.

**Individualized Asthma Management**

When a student has been diagnosed with asthma or when such a student registers for school, the Superintendent or designee shall request that the parent/guardian submit an asthma action plan. This plan shall be developed by the student's health care provider, in partnership with the student and his/her parents/guardians, and shall include, but not be limited to, information regarding the student's symptoms and severity, asthma triggers, necessary medications, and the parent/guardian's authorization for the health care provider's disclosure of health information to the district. The Superintendent or designee shall request that the parents/guardians submit an updated plan each school year or whenever there are changes in the student's health condition or treatment.

When a student with asthma has been identified as disabled pursuant to Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 or the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, necessary accommodations and services shall be identified as part of the student's Section 504 services plan or individualized education program (IEP), as appropriate.

Any student who needs to take prescribed medication during the school day may be assisted by a school nurse or designated school personnel or allowed to carry and self-administer inhaled asthma medication provided that the district receives written statements from the student's physician and parent/guardian in accordance with Education Code 49423.1 and BP/AR 5141.21 - Administering Medication and Monitoring Health Conditions. Parents/guardians shall be requested to provide quick relief medication to be administered in accordance with the student's asthma action plan.

Students shall be encouraged to notify their teacher, physical education teacher, coach, or other staff when they are experiencing difficulty breathing and/or need to alter their physical activity level. A student experiencing symptoms shall be encouraged to use his/her quick relief medication. The student shall be supervised on school grounds by a responsible adult until he/she is no longer experiencing symptoms and/or his/her parent/guardian has been contacted.

In case of emergency, staff shall call 911 and assist the student in the administration of quick relief medication as authorized in the student's asthma action plan, Section 504 services plan, or IEP. Staff shall contact the student's parent/guardian or other person identified as an emergency contact and shall supervise the student until his/her care has been assumed by a health professional, parent/guardian, or designated emergency contact.

**Education and Support Services**

Asthma management and support systems shall be coordinated by a school nurse, other qualified health professional, or educator who has received appropriate training.

Staff shall be provided professional development which includes information about symptoms and common triggers of asthma, ways to reduce acute symptoms, and emergency response procedures. This professional development may be provided by an outside consultant or organization, a school nurse, other qualified health professional, or educator who has received appropriate training.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide each school site with information regarding emergency management of asthma to post in easily accessible locations.

A school nurse or other qualified personnel may provide education to students with asthma using approved curriculum. Upon request by a student or his/her parents/guardians, the Superintendent or designee may provide information about available medical resources, including school-based health services as appropriate.

**Environmental Assessment**

The Superintendent or designee may periodically conduct an environmental assessment to identify and reduce the presence of common asthma triggers, including, but not limited to, pesticides, chemical pollutants, mold, and animal and dust mite allergens, in the school environment.

The Superintendent or designee shall communicate with each school principal when local health advisories are issued for high ozone days or poor outdoor air quality so that outdoor physical activities may be curtailed as necessary.
