---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.27"
title: "Food Allergies/Special Dietary Needs"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=rwo5w8k6hh9BxI3Wuo6OSw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to prevent students' exposure to foods to which they are allergic or intolerant and to provide for prompt and appropriate treatment in the event that a severe allergic reaction occurs at school.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop guidelines for the care of food-allergic students. Such guidelines shall include, but are not limited to, strategies for identifying students at risk for allergic reactions, avoidance measures, education of staff regarding typical symptoms, and actions to be taken in the event of a severe allergic reaction.

Parents/guardians shall be responsible for notifying the Superintendent or designee, in writing, regarding any food allergies or other special dietary needs of their child in accordance with administrative regulation.

When a student's food allergy or food intolerance substantially limits one or more major life activities, his/her parents/guardians shall be informed of the district's obligation to evaluate the student to determine if he/she requires accommodations pursuant to Section 504 of the federal Rehabilitation Act. The student shall be evaluated in accordance with law and the procedures specified in AR 6164.6 - Identification and Education Under Section 504. If that process results in the development of a Section 504 plan, the district shall provide the accommodations and/or aids and services identified in the plan.

If a student's diet restrictions and needed services are addressed in an individualized education program (IEP), the Superintendent or designee shall ensure compliance with the IEP including any necessary food substitutions.

Students shall not be excluded from school activities nor otherwise discriminated against, harassed, intimidated, or bullied because of their food allergy.

Any complaint of alleged noncompliance with this policy shall be addressed through appropriate district complaint procedures.

The district's food services program may, but is not required to, accommodate individual student preferences or diets that are not supported by a statement from the student's health care provider.
