---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.4"
title: "Child Abuse Prevention And Reporting"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=g2qJVZYFEaLFYfpSYgnRplusQ%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Child Abuse Prevention**

The district's instructional program shall include age-appropriate and culturally sensitive child abuse prevention curriculum. This curriculum shall explain students' right to live free of abuse, include instruction in the skills and techniques needed to identify unsafe situations and react appropriately and promptly, inform students of available support resources, and teach students how to obtain help and disclose incidents of abuse.

The district's program also may include age-appropriate curriculum in sexual abuse and sexual assault awareness and prevention. Upon written request of a student's parent/guardian, the student shall be excused from taking such instruction. (Education Code 51900.6)

The Superintendent or designee shall, to the extent feasible, seek to incorporate community resources into the district's child abuse prevention programs and may use these resources to provide parents/guardians with instruction in parenting skills and child abuse prevention.

**Child Abuse Reporting**

The Superintendent or designee shall establish procedures for the identification and reporting of known and suspected child abuse and neglect in accordance with law.

Procedures for reporting child abuse shall be included in the district and/or school comprehensive safety plan. (Education Code 32282)

District employees who are mandated reporters, as defined by law and administrative regulation, are obligated to report all known or suspected incidents of child abuse and neglect.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide training regarding the duties of mandated reporters.
