---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.25"
title: "Availability Of Condoms"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=KgnGs04KBjq0SPcv99Uvsw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education strongly encourages students to abstain from sexual activity. However, the Board also believes it has a responsibility to take steps to prevent pregnancy among minors, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), and other sexually transmitted diseases among students who do not abstain from sexual activity.

Condoms, when properly used, can reduce the incidence of pregnancy and transmission of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. The Board therefore finds it appropriate for condoms to be available to male and female students at high schools.

Condoms shall be available to individual high school students at locations designated by the Superintendent or designee. Related information shall be provided at the same locations, and a licensed health care professional shall be available to counsel students.

Condoms shall be provided in their original packaging, along with the manufacturer's instructions. Students shall receive additional information as appropriate and necessary regarding the proper use of condoms and their effectiveness.

Students shall be advised not to engage in unlawful sexual activity and shall receive information explaining that Penal Code 261.5 prohibits a male of any age from having sexual intercourse with a female under 18 to whom he is not married.

Verbal and/or written information shall be available to students obtaining condoms which stresses that abstinence is the only 100% effective method of preventing pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases and which does not condone or in any way encourage sexual activity among or with minors.

The Superintendent or designee may provide addresses and telephone numbers of resources that provide further information and counseling regarding HIV testing, AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, and pregnancy prevention.

The Superintendent or designee shall notify parents/guardians of Board policy regarding the availability of condoms and shall seek parent/guardian involvement in developing plans for implementing this policy.
