---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.6"
title: "School Health Services"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "12/11/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "12/11/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=pAXVslshKJe5NYQ3VefonFpluspw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that good physical and mental health is critical to a student's ability to learn and believes that all students should have access to comprehensive health services. The district may provide access to health services at or near district schools through the establishment of a school health center and/or mobile van(s) that serve multiple campuses.

The Board and the Superintendent or designee shall collaborate with local and state agencies and health care providers to assess the health needs of students in district schools and the community. Based on the results of this needs assessment and the availability of resources, the Superintendent or designee shall recommend for Board approval the types of health services to be provided by the district.

Board approval shall be required for any proposed use of district resources and facilities to support school health services. The Superintendent or designee shall identify funding opportunities available through grant programs, private foundations, and partnerships with local agencies and organizations.

The Board may prioritize school health services to schools serving students with the greatest need, including schools with medically underserved populations and/or a high percentage of low-income and uninsured children and youth.

School health services shall be provided under the supervision of a licensed health care professional. The Board may employ or contract with health care professionals or partner with community health centers to provide the services under the terms of a written contract or memorandum of understanding.

If a school nurse is employed by the school or district, he/she shall be involved in planning and implementing the school health services as appropriate.

The Superintendent or designee shall coordinate the provision of school health services with other student wellness initiatives, including health education, nutrition and physical fitness programs, and other activities designed to create a healthy school environment. The Superintendent or designee shall encourage joint planning and regular communications among health services staff, district administrators, teachers, counselors, other staff, and parents/guardians.

To further encourage student access to health care services, the Superintendent or designee shall develop and implement outreach strategies to increase enrollment of eligible students from low- to moderate-income families in affordable, comprehensive state or federal health coverage programs and local health initiatives. Such strategies may include, but are not limited to, providing information about the Medi-Cal program on the application for free and reduced-price meals in accordance with law.

**Consent and Confidentiality**

The Superintendent or designee shall obtain written parent/guardian consent prior to providing services to a student, except when the student is authorized to consent to the service pursuant to Family Code 6920-6929, Health and Safety Code 124260, or other applicable law.

The Superintendent or designee shall maintain the confidentiality of student health records in accordance with law.

**Payment/Reimbursement for Services**

The Superintendent or designee may bill public and private insurance programs and other applicable programs for reimbursement of services as appropriate. Services may be provided free of charge or on a sliding scale in accordance with law.

The district shall serve as a Medi-Cal provider to the extent feasible, comply with all related legal requirements, and seek reimbursement of costs to the extent allowed by law.

**Program Evaluation**

In order to continuously improve school health services, the Board shall evaluate the effectiveness of such services and the extent to which they continue to meet student needs.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide the Board with periodic reports that may include, but are not necessarily limited to, rates of participation in school health services; changes in student outcomes such as school attendance or achievement; measures of school climate; feedback from staff and participants regarding program accessibility and operations, including accessibility to low-income and linguistically and culturally diverse students and families; and program costs and revenues.
