---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5141.3"
title: "Health Examinations"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=0VMEThkjZFsaste1R6CSfA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes that periodic health examinations of students may lead to early detection and treatment of conditions that impact learning. Health examinations also may help in determining whether special adaptations of the school program are necessary.

The Superintendent or designee shall verify that students have complied with legal requirements for a comprehensive health screening, an oral health assessment, and immunizations at school entry. In addition, the district shall administer tests for vision, hearing, and scoliosis as required by law.

All students who participate as cheerleaders, song leaders, or athletes in organized competitive sports shall first undergo a medical examination and submit documentation of medical clearance to the district. Upon sustaining an injury or serious illness, a student may be required to have another examination before participating further. This requirement does not apply to participants in occasional play day or field day activities.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that staff employed to examine students exercise proper care of each student and that examination results are kept confidential. Records related to these examinations shall be maintained and released only in accordance with law.
