---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5142.1"
title: "Identification And Reporting Of Missing Children"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=01SK5iOPRpyrWFOrl6OslshgQ%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Notices of Missing Children**

Every school shall post in an appropriate area the monthly poster on missing children provided by the Department of Justice (DOJ). For elementary schools, the poster shall be posted in an area restricted to adults. (Education Code 38139; Penal Code 14210)

Whenever a new student enrolls or transfers into an elementary school in the district, the principal or designee is encouraged to review the missing person bulletins provided by the DOJ to determine if the student resembles a child listed as missing. (Education Code 49068.5)

School staff are also encouraged to monitor "Amber Alerts" issued by law enforcement agencies in serious, time-critical child abduction cases.

If a law enforcement agency notifies the district that a child enrolled in the district has been reported missing, the principal or designee of the school in which the child is enrolled shall place a notice on the front of the child's school record indicating that he/she has been reported missing. If a school receives a record inquiry or request from any person or entity regarding a missing child about whom the school has been notified, the principal or designee shall immediately notify the law enforcement agency that informed the school of the missing child's status. (Education Code 49068.6)

**Reporting Missing Children**

Any district employee who recognizes a child who has been reported missing through a DOJ notice, an Amber Alert, or other means shall immediately notify law enforcement using the hotline telephone number listed.

In the event that a district employee witnesses a child abduction, he/she shall immediately contact law enforcement and provide the agency with information on the location of the abduction and a description of the victim, the suspect, and any vehicle involved. He/she shall also notify the Superintendent or designee who shall implement steps, as needed, to ensure the safety of other students.

**Fingerprinting Program**

The district may offer a voluntary fingerprinting program for all entering kindergarten students and for all students newly enrolled in the district. The district may contract with any public or private agency, including any appropriate civic or community organization, and/or may seek to obtain private funding and volunteer assistance to perform the fingerprinting. (Education Code 32390; 5 CCR 640)

Students shall not be fingerprinted without parent/guardian consent. At the time of students' enrollment in the district, the Superintendent or designee shall notify the parents/guardians of the availability of the voluntary fingerprinting program and ask them to declare, in writing, whether or not they want their child to participate. At the same time, the Superintendent or designee shall notify parents/guardians in writing that they may reverse their declaration on fingerprinting in writing at any time. (Education Code 32390)

Parents/guardians of students who consent to the fingerprinting shall be charged a fee calculated to reimburse the district only for actual costs associated with the program. (Education Code 32390)

Fingerprint services shall be provided in accordance with the standards specified in 5 CCR 641.

Any report or document containing a student's fingerprints shall be given to the parents/guardians. It may be given with the child's report card or any other document routinely mailed to parents/guardians, or may be given in person at any parent-teacher conference. No report or document containing a student's fingerprints shall be kept by the district or given to any other private or public entity. (Education Code 32390)
