---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5145.12"
title: "Search And Seizure"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=o69b2cW1RGFwwgFHMSJnlg%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

As authorized by law and when necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of students and staff, school officials may search students, their property and/or district property under their control, and may seize illegal, unsafe and prohibited items. The Board of Education requires that discretion, good judgment and common sense be exercised in all cases of search and seizure.

**Individual Searches**

School officials may search individual students, their property and district property under their control, when there is a reasonable suspicion that the search will uncover evidence that the student is violating the law, Board policy, administrative regulation, or other rules of the district or the school.

Employees shall not conduct strip searches or body cavity searches of any student. (Education Code 49050)

Searches of individual students shall be conducted in the presence of at least two district employees.

The principal or designee shall notify the parent/guardian of a student subjected to an individualized search as soon as possible after the search.

**Student Lockers/Desks**

The principal or designee may conduct a general inspection of school properties that are within the control of students, such as lockers and desks, on a regular, announced basis. Any items contained in a locker or desk shall be presumed to be the property of the student to whom the locker or desk was assigned.

From time to time, school officials may open and inspect student lockers or desks for general health and safety inspections, or for purposes of disposing abandoned property. Because lockers and desks are under the joint control of the student and the district, school officials shall have the right and ability to open and inspect any school locker or desk without student permission or prior notice when they have reasonable suspicion that the search will uncover evidence of illegal possessions or activities or when odors, smoke, fire and/or other threats to health, welfare or safety emanate from the locker or desk.

**Use of Metal Detectors**

The Board believes that the presence of weapons in the schools threatens the district's ability to provide the safe and orderly learning environment to which district students and staff are entitled. The Board also believes that metal detector searches offer a reasonable means to keep weapons out of the schools and mitigate the fears of students and staff.

The Superintendent or designee shall establish procedures that ensure that metal detector searches are conducted in a consistent manner that minimizes or eliminates arbitrary and capricious enforcement by school officials.

**Use of Drug-Detection Dogs**

In an effort to keep the schools free of drugs, the district may use specially trained nonaggressive dogs to sniff out and alert staff to the presence of substances prohibited by law or Board policy. The dogs may sniff the air around lockers, desks, or vehicles on district property or at district-sponsored events as long as they are not allowed to sniff within the close proximity of any students.
