---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5145.12"
title: "Search And Seizure"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=jslshERsAMHhnoSmslsh6hMZenTw%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

**Use of Metal Detectors**

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that the following safeguards are used when making metal detector scans:

1. Before walk-through, students shall be asked to empty their pockets and belongings of metallic objects.
2. If an initial metal detector activation occurs, students shall be asked to remove other metallic objects that they may be wearing (e.g., belt and jewelry) and to walk through a second time.
3. If a second activation occurs, a hand-held metal detector shall be used.
4. If the activation is not eliminated or explained, staff shall escort the student to a private area where an expanded search shall be conducted by a staff member of the same gender as the student in the presence of another district employee.
5. The search shall be limited to the detection of the cause of the activation.

**Use of Contraband Detection Dogs**

When a school principal determines there is a need for the use of contraband detection dogs, s/he shall notify the Superintendent or designee prior to the contraband detection dog's arrival on the school site.

Contraband detection dogs shall not be used in classrooms or other district facilities when the rooms are occupied, except for demonstration purposes with the handler present. When used for demonstration purposes, the dog shall be separated from the students and not allowed to sniff any individual.

Prior to conducting an inspection, students shall be asked to leave the room that will be subject to the canine sniff. No student shall be forced to leave personal items behind for inspection, unless school officials have individualized reasonable suspicion to search the item.

Only the dog's official handler shall determine what constitutes an alert by the dog. If the dog alerts on a particular item or place, the student having the use of that item or place, or responsibility for it, shall be called to witness the inspection. If a dog alerts on a locked vehicle, the student who brought the vehicle onto district property shall be asked to unlock it for inspection.

**Notifications**

At the beginning of each school year and upon enrollment, the Superintendent or designee shall inform students and parents/guardians about the district's policies and procedures for searches, including notice regarding:

1. The possibility of searches of students, their belongings, their vehicles parked on district property, and district properties under a student's control, including lockers or desks
2. The district's contraband dog detection program
3. The possible use of metal detector scans

In addition, the Superintendent or designee shall ensure that signs are posted at all schools at which metal detectors are to be used to explain that anyone may be scanned by metal detector for guns, knives, or other illegal weapons when on campus or attending athletic or extracurricular events.
