---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5148.22"
title: "^Before/After School Programs Waitlist"
type: "AR"
date_last_revised: "07/24/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "07/24/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=efapUcgx8LPR4wQSqHTenA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

In an effort to provide adequate childcare services for families in Santa Rosa City Schools, the Child Care department is required to create a waitlist when there is not enough personnel or room capacity to provide safe services to families. In that event, a "waitlist" will be developed.

The wait list will be based on completed applications received electronically via the Procare enrollment system. They will be date and time-stamped. Priority will be based on "first received" via this electronic method. Electronic applications are the only method to receive consideration. The childcare staff will assist parents with the electronic application whenever necessary.

Based on this date and time, then enrollment application will be prioritized using the following system listed below.

1. First Priority: Continuing students. Continuing students are students that continue to attend the same school AND were enrolled and attending the previous school year in the Child Care program. This enrollment must be identified by the last day of May.
2. Second Priority: Students identified as Foster Youth or Homeless by the Student and Family Engagement (S.A.F.E.) office.
3. Third Priority: Children of district employees. Certificated or Classified SRCS employees that are actively employed in full-time or part-time employment with SRCS.
4. Fourth Priority: Students of parents that are currently full-time employees of Keysight Technology. (Hidden Valley only)
5. Fifth Priority: Any student that has been displaced due to a natural disaster as defined below[1]. The family must meet with the Director of Childcare program to provide any necessary details.
6. Sixth Priority: Siblings of students who are currently enrolled at the same school site where there is childcare.
7. Seventh Priority: Any other student who is enrolled at that particular school site, on a first come first serve basis.

A list, by school site, will be electronically maintained using the confidential school ID of the student and made available to provide to parents online. This list will be updated monthly. The list will show the date of the completed application and the priority ranking assigned to it.

Appeal of waitlist placement: Any concerns of the placement on that list shall be directed to the Supervisor of the Child Care program within 30 days of the first posting. Failure to bring any concerns forward within that 30 days, shall be deemed a waiving of rights for appeal. The appeal of a student's placement shall be made to the District Supervisor of the Child Care program who shall meet with the family, review any concerns and render a written email decision with 10 school days. If not satisfied with that decision, the family may appeal to the Assistant Superintendent for Student and Family Services within 5 school days after receiving the written District Supervisor decision. The Assistant Superintendent shall meet with the family and review the facts in the case and render a decision within 5 school days. That decision shall be final.

1. For purposes of defining for Santa Rosa Schools, when the Governor of California has declared a State of Emergency as defined by the Cal. Govt. Code 8680 to 8680.9 and declared as such by the Governor of California under California Emergency Services Act Govt. Code Emergency Services Act, and in particular, section 8625 of the Government Code and has been displaced by such declared Emergency. In order to be eligible families must meet the following criteria:

Have suffered 10% or more of damage from the disaster to the value of their structure of their residence. The residence must be their primary residence, Must have been residing at the residence at the time of the disaster and, Must have been displaced by the qualifying event.
