---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5148.3"
title: "Preschool/Early Childhood Education"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "12/11/2019"
date_last_reviewed: "12/11/2019"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=PWWqG6MNNFGKBNDgVzQ6fQ%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education recognizes the value of high-quality preschool experiences to enhance children's social-emotional development, knowledge, skills, abilities, and attributes necessary for a successful transition into the elementary education program. The Board desires to provide children ages 3-4 years access to developmentally appropriate activities in a safe, adequately supervised, and cognitively rich environment.

The Superintendent or designee shall collaborate with the local child care and development planning council, the county office of education, other public agencies, organizations, and/or private preschool providers to assess the availability of preschool programs in the community and the extent to which the community's preschool needs are being met. The Board encourages the development of a comprehensive districtwide and/or countywide plan to increase children's access to high-quality preschool programs.

The Superintendent or designee shall provide information about preschool options in the community to parents/guardians upon request.

**District Preschool Programs**

When the Board determines that it is feasible, the district may contract with the California Department of Education (CDE) to provide preschool services in facilities at or near district schools, either directly or through a subcontract with a public or private provider.

District preschool programs shall comply with all health and safety laws and regulations, including, when applicable, licensure requirements pursuant to 22 CCR 101156.

The Board shall approve, for the district's preschool program, a written philosophical statement, goals, and objectives that reflect the cultural and linguistic characteristics of the families to be served and address the program components specified in 5 CCR 18272-18281 and the accompanying administrative regulation. (5 CCR 18271)

The Board shall set priorities for establishing or expanding services as resources become available, giving consideration to the benefits of providing early education programs for at-risk children and/or children residing in the attendance areas of the lowest performing district schools.

Preschool classroom needs shall be addressed in the district's facilities master plan, including an assessment as to whether adequate and appropriate space exists on school sites. As necessary, the Superintendent or designee shall provide information to the Board regarding facilities financing options for preschool classrooms and/or facilities available through partnering organizations or agencies.

Because parents/guardians are essential partners in supporting the development of their children, the Superintendent or designee shall involve them in program planning.

The Superintendent or designee shall coordinate the district's preschool program, transitional kindergarten program (TK), and elementary education program to provide a developmental continuum that builds upon children's growing skills and knowledge.

The district's program shall be aligned with preschool learning foundations and curriculum frameworks developed by CDE which identify the knowledge, skills, and competencies that children typically attain as they complete their first or second year of preschool. The program shall be designed to facilitate children's development in essential skills in the areas of language and literacy, mathematics, physical development, health, visual and performing arts, science, history-social science, English language development, and social-emotional development.

The district's preschool program shall provide appropriate services to support the needs of at-risk children.

To maximize the ability of children to succeed in the preschool program, the program shall support children's health through proper nutrition and physical activity and shall provide or make referrals to available health and social services as needed.

The district shall encourage volunteerism in the program and shall communicate frequently with parents/guardians of enrolled children regarding their child's progress.

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that administrators, teachers, and paraprofessionals in district preschool programs possess the appropriate permit(s) issued by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing, meet any additional qualifications established by the Board, and participate in professional development opportunities designed to continually enhance their knowledge and skills.

Preschool admissions policies and procedures shall be in writing and available to the public. Such policies and procedures shall include criteria designating those children whose needs can be met by the program and services, the ages of children who will be accepted, program activities, any supplementary services provided, any field trip provisions, any transportation arrangements, food service provisions, and a health examination requirement. (CCR 18105; 22 CCR 101218)

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that subsidized preschool is provided to eligible families to the extent that state and/or federal funding is available and shall establish enrollment priorities in accordance with Education Code 8263 and 5 CCR 18106.

The Superintendent or designee shall recommend strategies to link the district's preschool program with other available child care and development programs in the district or community in order to assist families whose child care needs extend beyond the length of time that the district's part-day preschool program is offered.

The Superintendent or designee shall develop and implement an annual plan of evaluation which conforms to state requirements. (5 CCR 18279)

The district's Williams uniform complaint procedures, with modifications as necessary, shall be used to investigate and resolve complaints alleging violation of applicable health or safety requirements for license-exempt programs operating under the California State Preschool Program. However, licensed programs shall refer complaints alleging health and safety violations to the California Department of Social Services. (Education Code 8235.5; 5 CCR 4610, 4611)

The Superintendent or designee shall regularly report to the Board regarding enrollment in district preschool programs and the effectiveness of the programs in preparing preschoolers for transition into the elementary education program.
