---
institution_name: "Santa Rosa City Schools"
institution_id: "36030438"
code: "5148.2"
title: "Before/After School Programs"
type: "BP"
date_last_revised: "04/12/2017"
date_last_reviewed: "04/12/2017"
source_url: "https://simbli.eboardsolutions.com/Policy/ViewPolicy.aspx?S=36030438&revid=nsws3nubvsvaUkPM4bVYfA%3D%3D&ptid=9slshUHzTHxaaYMVf6zKpJz3Q%3D%3D&secid=&PG=6&IRP=0&isPndg=false"
---

The Board of Education desires to provide before-school and/or after-school enrichment programs that support the regular education program and provide safe alternatives for students. In order to increase academic achievement of participating students, the content of such programs shall be coordinated with the district's vision and goals for student learning, its curriculum, and district and state academic standards.

The district's program shall be planned through a collaborative process that includes parents/guardians, students, and representatives of participating schools, governmental agencies including city and county parks and recreation departments, local law enforcement, community organizations, and, if appropriate, the private sector. (Education Code 8422, 8482.5)

The establishment of any program shall be approved by the Board and the principal of each participating school. (Education Code 8421, 8482.3)

The Superintendent or designee shall ensure that all staff who directly supervise students in the district's before-school and/or after-school program possess appropriate knowledge and experience. As needed, staff and volunteers shall receive ongoing training related to their job responsibilities. (Education Code 8483.4)

The program shall include academic and enrichment elements in accordance with law and administrative regulation. In addition, the program may include support services that reinforce the educational component and promote student health and well-being.

A fee may be charged to participating families based on the actual cost of services. The fee may be waived or subsidized based on economic need or other critical needs.

Eligible students ages 11-12 years shall be placed in a before-school or after-school program, if and when available, rather than subsidized child care and development services. During the time that the before-school or after-school program does not operate, students ages 11-12 years may be provided the option of enrolling in child care and development services in accordance with the priorities established in AR 5148 - Child Care and Development. (Education Code 8263.4)

The Board and the Superintendent or designee shall monitor student participation rates and shall identify multiple measures that shall be used to evaluate program effectiveness. Such measures may include, but are not limited to, student outcome data; program self-assessments; feedback from staff, participating students, and parents/guardians; and observations of program activities.

Every three years, the program shall review its after-school program plan, including program goals, program content, and outcome measures. Documentation of the program plan shall be maintained for a minimum of five years. (Education Code 8482.3)
